The Project Gutenberg eBook of Report on the Migration of Birds in the
Spring and Autumn of 1885, by J. A. Harvie Brown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Report on the Migration of Birds in the Spring and Autumn of 1885
       Seventh Report (Vol. II No.2)

Author: J. A. Harvie Brown
        J. Cordeaux
        R. M. Barrington
        G. A. Moore
        W. Eagle Clarke

Release Date: July 14, 2021 [eBook #65840]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Tom Cosmas produced from files provided by The Internet
             Archive and placed in the Public Domain.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS
IN THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1885 ***




Transcriber Note

Text emphasis indicated as _Italics_ and =Bold=.



                                REPORT

                                ON THE

                          MIGRATION OF BIRDS

                                IN THE

                      SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1885,


                                  BY

                Mr J. A. HARVIE-BROWN, Mr J. CORDEAUX,
                  Mr R. M. BARRINGTON, Mr A. G. MORE,

                                  AND

                          Mr W. EAGLE CLARKE.


                            SEVENTH REPORT.

                          (Vol. II., No. 2.)


                              EDINBURGH:

                    PRINTED BY M'FARLANE & ERSKINE,

                      14 AND 19 ST JAMES SQUARE.

                                 1886.




PREFACE.


The following Report contains a summary of investigations of a
Committee reappointed by the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, at Aberdeen, in 1885, to consist of Professor Newton, Mr
J. A. Harvie-Brown, Mr John Cordeaux, Mr W. Eagle Clarke, Mr R. M.
Barrington, and Mr A. G. More, for the purpose of obtaining (with
the consent of the Master and Elder Brethren of the Trinity House,
the Commissioners of Northern Lights, and the Commissioners of Irish
Lights) observations on the Migrations of Birds at Lighthouses and
Lightships, and of reporting on the same at Birmingham in 1886. Mr
Cordeaux to be the Secretary.

The returns relating to Scotland have been arranged by Mr J. A.
Harvie-Brown; for the East Coast of England, by Mr Cordeaux; for the
West Coast of England, by Mr W. Eagle Clarke; and those for the Coasts
of Ireland, by Mr E. M. Barrington and Mr A. G. More.




CONTENTS.


                                                PAGE
  General Remarks,                                 5

  East Coast of Scotland,                         12

  East Coast of England,                          37

  Heligoland,                                     60

  West Coast of Scotland,                         92

  West Coast of England and Wales, and the Isle
    of Man,                                      108

  Irish Coast,                                   132


[Illustration:

                                  MAP

                                OF THE

                            British Islands

                        SHOWING POSITION of THE

                  LIGHTHOUSE & LIGHT VESSEL STATIONS

                    TO WHICH SCHEDULES ARE SENT BY

                            THE COMMITTEE.
]




LIST OF STATIONS.


      1. Iceland.              =England--East Coast.=
      2. Do.
      3. Faroe.                   30. Longstone L.H.
      3_b_. Fair Isle.            31. Inner Farn L.H.
                                  32. Coquet Island L.H.
  =Scotland--East Coast.=         33. 5 Buoy Tees L.V.
                                  34. Whitby High L.H.
      4. N. Unst.                 35. Flamborough Head L.H.
      5. Whalsey Skerries.        36. Spurn Point L.H.
      6. Bressay Sound.           37. Spurn L.V.
      7. Sumburgh Head.           38. Inner Dowsing L.V.
      8. N. Ronaldshay.           39. Dudgeon L.V.
      9. Start Point.             40. Outer Dowsing L.V.
     10. Auskerry.                41. Llyn Wells L.V.
    {11. Hoy Sound (Low).         42. Hasbro' L.V.
    {12. Hoy Sound (High).        43. Leman and Ower L.V.
     13. Cantick Head.            44. Hunstanton L.H.
     14. Pentland Skerries.       45. Cromer L.H.
     15. Dunnet Head.             46. Hasbro' L.H.
     16. Holborn Head.            47. Winterton L.H.
     17. Noss Head.               48. Newarp L.V.
     18. Tarbat Ness.             49. Cockle L.V.
     19. Cromarty.                50. Corton L.V.
     20. Chanonry Point.          51. Orfordness L.H.
     21. Covesea Skerries.        52. Languard Point L.H.
     22. Kinnaird Head.           53. Shipwash L.V.
     23. Buchan Ness.             54. Swin Middle L.V.
     24. Girdleness.              55. Nore L.V.
     25. Montroseness.            56. Tongue L.V.
     26. Bell Rock.               57. Kentish Knock L.V.
     27. Isle of May.             58. Galloper L.V.
     28. Inchkeith.               59. North Foreland L.H.
     28_b_. Fidra (1885).         60. North Sand Head L.V.
     29. St Abb's Head.           61. Gull L.V.
                                  62. Eastside L.V.
                                  63. South Foreland L.H.
                                  64. South Sand Head L.V.
                                  65. Varne L.V.

  =Scotland--West Coast.=      =England--West Coast.=

     81. Cape Wrath.             119. Bahama Bank L.V.
     82. Rhu Stoir.              120. St Bees L.H.
     83. Butt of Lewis.          121. Selker L.V.
     84. Stornoway.              122. Morecambe Bay L.V.
     85. Island Ghlais.          123. Dee L.V.
     86. Monach Isles.           124. Air L.H.
     87. Ushenish.               125. Menai L.H.
     88. Barra Head.             126. Skerries L.H.
     89. Rona.                   127. Holyhead Breakwater L.H.
     90. Kyleakin.               128. South Stack L.H.
     91. Isle Ornsay.            129. Carnarvon Bay L.V.
     92. Ardnamurchan.           130. St Tudwal's L.H.
     93. Skerryvore and Hynish   131. Bardsey Island L.H.
           Signal Tower, Tiree.  132. Cardigan Bay L.V.
     94. Dhuheartach.            133. South Bishop L.H.
     95. Sound of Mull.          134. Smalls L.H.
     96. Corran Ferry.           135. Great Castlehead L.H.
     97. Lismore.                136. Milford L.H.
     98. Fladda, Easdale.        137. Caldy L.H.
     99. Rhuvaal.                138. Helwick L.V.
    100. M'Arthur's Head.        139. Scarweather L.V.
    101. Skervuile.              140. Nash L.H.
    102. Rhinns of Islay.        141. Breaksea L.V.
    103. Lochindaul.             142. Flatholm L.H.
    104. Mull of Kintyre.        143. English and Welsh
    105. Sanda.                         Grounds L.V.
    106. Devaar.                 144. Usk L.H.
    107. Pladda, Arran.          145. Avon L.H.
    108. Lamlash.                146. Burnham L.H.
    109. Turnberry.              147. Bull Point L.H.
    109_b_. Ailsa Craig          148. Bideford L.H.
           (building, 1885).     149. Lundy L.H.
    110. Corsewall.              150. Hartland Point L.H.
    111. Loch Ryan.              151. Trevose Head L.H.
    112. Portpatrick.            152. Godrevy L.H.
    113. Mull of Galloway.       153. Longships L.H.
    114. Little Ross.            154. Sevenstones L.V.
                                 155. Wolf-Rock L.H.
  =Isle of Man.=                 156. Scilly L.H.
                                 157. Bishop's Rock L.H.
    115. Point of Ayre.          158. Lizard L.H.
    116. Douglas Head.           159. Falmouth Harbour L.H.
    117. Langness (1880).        160. Eddystone L.H.
    118. Chickens Rock.          161. Plymouth Breakwater L.H.
                                 162. Start L.H.

  =Ireland.=

      1. Fastnet.                20. Arranmore.
      2. Galley Head.            21. Rathlin O'Birne.
      3. Old Head, Kinsale.      22. Killybegs.
      4. Mine Head.              23. Oyster Island.
      5. Dungarvan.              24. Broadhaven.
      5*.Coningbeg Lt.-ship.     25. Eagle Island, E.
      6. Barrels Rock Lt.-ship.  26. Eagle Island, W.
      7. Tuskar.                 27. Blackrock, Mayo.
      8. Arklow S. Lt.-ship.     28. Blacksod Point.
      8*.Arklow N. Lt.-ship.     29. Clare Island.
     10. Kish Bank Lt.-ship.     30. Slyne Head, N.
     11. Howth Baily.            31. Slyne Head, S.
     12. Rockabill.              32. Arran Island, N.
     13. Copeland Island.        33. Straw Island.
     14. Maidens.                34. Arran Island, S.
     15. Rathlin.                36. Samphire Island.
     16. Innishtrahull.          37. Tearaght.
     17. Dunree Head.            38. Valentia.
     18. Lough Swilly.           39. Skelligs.
     19. Tory Island.            40. Dursey Island.

  =Outlying Stations.=

   Heligoland.
   Stevns Fyr, Zealand.
   Malmo, Sweden.
   Casquets L.H., Alderney.
   Hanois L.H., Guernsey.




                            SEVENTH REPORT

                                  ON

                        THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS

                                IN THE

                      SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1885.


_This year, in order to decrease the bulk of the Report, the Committee
decided that Ocean Notes be not printed in the Report, but separately.
Messrs Gray and Swinburne having again kindly kept notes for us, these
will be retained for future publication._


GENERAL REMARKS.

Our thanks are again due to the numerous Reporters, whose names are
given under the "Diaries" of the two coasts.

Additions to our List of Stations are Fidra in the Firth of Forth, and
also very shortly after this will be added a light-vessel off the Carr
Rock, coast of Fife, holding an intermediate position between Bell Rock
and Isle of May; and on the west coast the light upon Ailsa Craig.
It is intended to introduce the electric light at Isle of May, and
machinery and works are at present in course of erection.

We regret to learn that an order has been issued that lighthouse
keepers shall no longer be allowed to read or write in the
lantern-rooms; and we are glad that some little notice has been taken
of the fact in the House of Commons on the 12th April 1886.

The 1885 schedules show distinctly the compressed nature of the
migration, which, while very considerable in numerical importance,
was, at the same time, short, sharp, and decisive. The principal spring
rush was similar, occupying only a few days at the comparatively late
date of the beginning of May, particulars of which can be gleaned
directly from the Diaries of the stations, and especially under
_Turdidæ_, Fieldfares being unusually plentiful. This appears to
have been the heaviest movement, taking all species together, but
_Saxicolinæ_ travelled all April and May, and _Silviinæ_ about the
middle of April.

Shortly, we may describe the migration of 1885 thus:--

In spring of 1885 the rush was pronounced, somewhat late, compressed,
and in many respects very similar, but not so extensive as 1884. The
prevailing winds were easterly and southeasterly in April and May, and
had been very continuous. The effect was the compression spoken of--a
closed fan. The largest migration ever witnessed at the Isle of May was
on 3d May 1885.

In autumn the rushes partook of a similar nature,--short, sharp, and
decisive, but very considerable in numerical importance. Previous to
middle of October, migration was very slight at any stations, but great
rushes took place between then and about the middle of November. An
interesting note of the cross-migration of Woodcocks, and other birds,
is given at the Isle of May. Woodcocks travelling towards the N.W., and
striking the S.E. side of the glass, whilst other species were flying
S.E., and striking on exactly the opposite side of the lantern, both
flights being equally favourable, or nearly so, by the light E. wind.
Another N.W. to S.E. rush took place during the day-time, of what must
have been a very extensive migration, upon the 10th November; wind
light south, and birds flying high. An unprecedentedly high gale as
coming from the S.E. is recorded at Isle of May on the 23d.

We would like to ask our readers, and the British Association, of
which we are a Committee, to recognise that the more we know about
migration, apparently the less reason is there for scientists to use
the term "Accidental." At present "Abnormal" is better. "_Of accidental
occurrence_" is a term or phrase which ought to be _expunged_, root and
branch, from scientific records of migration. Every year's statistics
prove this more and more fully. "Probably an escape" is, no doubt, a
safeguard against undue admission to the British List; but we think it
possible to carry this phrase too commonly into use, ignoring the fact
that migration may account _much more simply_ for such occurrences,
under certain conditions, than escapes. A list of localities where
foreign fowls, like _Porphyrio melanotus_, are kept throughout
the United Kingdom, would greatly facilitate positive records of
"occurrences;" and all such species as Canada Geese and ornamental
Waterfowl, which are kept in confinement or partial domestication,
might be returned to the Committee, or to the Association, by the
proprietors, if they were asked to do so by circular.

From every succeeding year's statistics, we have come almost to similar
conclusions regarding the lines of flight. Three salient routes on to
our East Coast of Scotland are invariably shown, _viz._: (_1st_) _viâ_
the entrance of the Firth of Forth, and as far north as Bell Rock,
both coming in autumn and leaving in spring; (_2d_) _viâ_ the Pentland
Firth and Pentland Skerries, both in spring and autumn; and (_3d_)
_viâ_ the insular groups of Orkney and Shetland, which perhaps may be
looked upon as part of No. 2; and a fourth with almost certainty passes
into the Moray Firth, but avoids the high cliffs of the east coast of
Aberdeenshire.

On the other hand, three great areas of coast-line, including both
favourably placed and favourably lighted stations, almost invariably,
save in occasionally protracted easterly winds, and even then but
rarely, send in no returns or schedules of the very scantiest
description. These areas are Berwickshire, the whole E. coast south of
the Moray Firth, and Caithness and E. Sutherland. Each and all of these
areas possess high and precipitous coast-lines, if we except the minor
estuaries of the rivers of Tay and Dee, and a small portion of lower
coast-line in Sutherland, which face towards the east. Nevertheless
these areas partake to a very large extent of the numbers of migrants
which visit Scotland. Nowhere in Scotland, perhaps, is summer bird-life
more abundant than in, at least, the two more southern of these
areas--Berwickshire, and the interior of Aberdeen and Banff, and the
valley of Spey and its tributaries. The question appears a natural one:
by what route do these summer visitants reach us? or, by what route do
birds reach us in autumn? Not, I believe, _over the high cliff edge_ in
the latter case, otherwise _some_ migration would certainly be visible
from the rock-bound stations. As shown in one case, positive assurance
is given by the reporter at Noss Head, that for eleven years scarcely
a bird "_had been observed on migration day or night_," and we have
scarcely any statistics to show a contrary view, as regards the said
area all through our seven reports.

How, it is known with considerable certainty that Caithness owes
its periodical passing visits of such species as Blackcap and Pied
Flycatcher, both in spring and autumn, to its immediate proximity to
one of the chief highways of migration--the Pentland Firth; and the
configuration of the N.E. peninsula of that county clearly points to
the route by which spring passing migrants reach the E. coast of the
county, as we have already explained in previous remarks. They cross
over a low-lying depression in the land from Dunnet Bay, and cut off
the peninsula of Canisbay. Coming again in autumn, the same birds, to
some slight extent, may return across this peninsula, but the undoubted
fact remains that the compressed and strongest flights cross over the
Pentland Skerries and through the Firth.

In the same way, it appears that while scarcely a bird is ever recorded
at the stations along the E. cliff-edge of Aberdeen, yet, in autumn,
a well-marked stream of migration enters the N.E. counties at a point
westward of Troup Head, which forms the northern abutment of the
dividing ridge, or watershed, between what are known as the Faunal
areas of "Moray and Dee;" and that thence up the wide open valley of
the Spey, and over the low-lying portions of the south coast of the
Moray Firth, this stream is clearly traceable at many points. It is
also known that an equally decided spring "return" descends the same
great valley, and enters it across the dividing range between the head
waters of Spey and Spean or Pattack. We have studied this subject
locally--at many points personally--especially in spring, and notes
we have taken, dating back for many years, all tend to strengthen the
statement.

In the same way it appears almost equally certain, that while few birds
fly across over the cliff-edges of Berwickshire, but pour in vast
streams up the open and wide Firth of Forth, still Berwickshire, and
the interior of the south of Scotland, are well supplied with migrants;
and the "return" is equally apparent. A study of our previous remarks
by our readers cannot, we think, fail to give them the idea of the
process of the population of these interior portions of the country in
Scotland.

England is differently circumstanced to a great extent, owing
principally to its low-lying sea-board. There is no occasion there to
have the great migration waves compressed into grooves and firths and
depressions.

The further question naturally may be asked, "But why should they not
fly in over the cliff tops?" We think there are already many reasons
stated in our previous remarks why such is less likely to happen,
during normal migration, whether by day or by night, and that they
should avoid obstacles, and choose an easier if not a shorter route.

The population of these interior parts, which are bounded by
precipitous coast-lines, appears to us almost certainly to arrive by
the innumerable veins--if I may so call them--which run into and join
the main arteries,--and thus a circular migration is evinced.

Birds in normal migration against a beam wind fly low, and on reaching
low-lying sea-board pass on inland without resting. But on approaching
high land, say 200 or 300 feet in height, while at night the greatest
darkness is ahead of them, and the greatest light to the north or south
of their course; during the day-time, if the wind is off-shore--a
beam wind,--on approaching the lee shore, they enter upon a calm belt
of sheltered air and water, and choose the easier path along shore.
According to whether the off-shore wind is strong or light, will they
approach nearer or keep further out; and, skirting the coast-line, so
enter upon one of the great open highways of normal migration. This,
which appears almost undoubted, will in great measure account for
the invariably slender returns sent in by nearly all the rock-bound
stations of the more precipitous portions of the Scottish Coast.

Regarding the migration of Woodcock generally, the following notes may
prove of some interest. These I culled from the note-books and game
register of a naval friend stationed at Corfu and the Albanian coast in
1879.

The first flight of Woodcock occurs about the first ten days of
November, and it remains a very short time before passing on, unless
abnormal "south winds keep them in cover." The second and heavy flight
occurs about the middle of December, and may remain a mouth, and odd
birds are shot even in February in the lower covers. Thomas Wood, Esq.,
British Consul at Patras,--an authority for the locality,--says that
Woodcock come in November with a N.W. wind most freely, but in December
with a N.E. wind.

By a study of the area over which the Woodcock breeds, of the time
they take in flight, and of a comparison of the dates of arrivals at
Heligoland and East British Coasts with the above,--it seems pretty
clear, I think, that the early flight, which extends along the whole
Albanian coast is composed entirely of birds bred amongst the higher
levels of their southern range, coming probably from the Carpathians
and as far south as the Balkans, as well as from high localities even
nearer to the Albanian coast and coverts. It seems to us also equally
clear that the December flight, preferring the beam wind from the N.E.,
comes from the western parts of North Europe, having originally started
from the breeding areas of the extreme north. On starting, we will
say, from the N. of Scandinavia, or Scandinavia, and other parts of
the breeding range, they arrive on our coasts about October {our first
flight). This corresponds with the first flight on the Albanian coast
a month later. Birds reaching us congregate upon our islands under
the genial influence of the Gulf Stream, but may finally be drawn off
by December, and constitute a portion at least of the great flight at
Corfu, where one ship's sportsmen have been known to kill something
like 300 cock in a day or two (I have not the figures, but they are
accessible, if necessary).

Regarding the subject of the arrival of young' birds in advance of
the adults in autumn, the Committee, we think, should look at the
movements exhibited by, and distinctly observable in, certain species.
Those, perhaps, most easily observed are the larger Natatores, such as
Geese and Swans and Gannets, whose distinct movements can be watched
year after year, and recorded with almost absolute certainty. We do
not intend to dilate upon the importance of this method at present,
but in the connection will merely quote a significant passage from Mr
Robert Gray's "Birds of the West of Scotland,"[1] and to supplement
it by saying that there can be no doubt as to the accuracy of the
observations made, as they are well known to the inhabitants. Mr Gray
says: "Previous to leaving, the Barnacle Geese assemble in immense
flocks on the open sands, at low tide, in the Sounds of Benbecula and
S. Uist; and as soon as one detachment is on the wing, it is seen to be
guided by a leader, who points the way with strong flight northwards,
maintaining a noisy bearing until he gets the flock into the right
course. After an hour's interval, he is seen returning with noisy
gabble alone, southwards to the main body, and taking off another
detachment as before, until the whole are gone. A notice of this
singular habit was first communicated to me by Mr Alex. Carmichael, and
has since been corroborated by Mr Norman M'Donald, who informs me that
the inhabitants of the Long Island have been long familiar with it."

[Footnote 1: _Op. cit._, pp. 349, 350.]




EAST COAST OF SCOTLAND.


The usual schedules were sent to twenty-seven stations. Thirteen
stations on the East Coast of Scotland have returned forty-eight
schedules. Isle of May gives heaviest returns with nineteen schedules.
Pentland Skerries follows with eleven. Bell Rock again is next in
importance.

In the List of Stations we follow the same plan as in that of 1884, but
we add in several cases the names of the assistant light-keepers whose
names have been returned as taking interest in the proceedings. The
present year's returns will be indicated by asterisks.

We do not repeat the explanation of migration values of the the
stations here for the Scotch Coast, that being done in our last Report
(_q.v._ p. 10).


EAST OF SCOTLAND.

  Returns
    in 6   In
   years. 1885.                              Values.  Feet.

Shetland.

     4     *    4. N. Unst,                      IV.   230
     3          5. Whalsey Skerries,             II.   143
     1          6. Bressay,                     III.   105
     4     *    7. Sumburgh Head,                 I.   303

Orkney.

     5     *    8. N. Ronaldshay,                IV.   180
           *    9. Start Point,                   V.    80
     6     *   10. Auskerry,                      I.   110
               11. Hoy Sound (Low),               V.    65
               12. Hoy Sound (High),              V.   115
               13. Cantick Head,                III.   115
     6     *   14. Pentland Skerries,             I.   170

Mainland.

     6         15. Dunnet Head, Caithness,        V.   346
               16. Holborn Head, Caithness,       V.    75
               17. Noss Head, Caithness,          V.   175
               18. Tarbat Head, East Ross,        V.   175
     4     *   19. Cromarty, East Cromarty,       V.    60
     3     *   20. Chanonry Point, Elgin,         V.    40
               21. Covesea Skerries, Elgin,       V.   160
               22. Kinnaird Head, Aberdeen,       V.   120
               23. Buchan Ness, Aberdeen,         V.   130
               24. Girdleness, Aberdeen,          V.   185
               25. Montroseness, Forfar,          V.   124
     6     *   26. Bell Rock, Fife Coast,         I.    93
               26B. _Carr Rock Light-ship_, Fife Coast,†  ?
     6     *   27. Isle of May, Firth of Forth,   I.   240
     1st       27B. Fidra, Firth of Forth,†
     5     *   28. Inchkeith, Firth of Forth,    IV.   220
               29. St Abb's Head, Berwick,        V.   224

  † New Stations, 1885-86.


Diary from the Stations.

_N. Unst._--John Nichol (principal), J. J. Morrison, Robert Agnew,
and John Down (assistants), send in three well-filled schedules. J.
N. in a note says: "Wood's Natural History, second edition, would
be very useful to us here." Amongst rarities, a Wryneck, obtained
on 9th September (see under species). "About 5th September all
Puffins, Marrots, Kittiwakes, and Guillemots disappeared. Puffins and
Mosscheepers (probably Rock Pipits, J. A. H. B.) breed on the rock, and
a Gull or two. Falcon Hawk on the island ashore, and visits the rock
in search of small birds. No Swans seen as in former years in November
and December. I was told a great flock was seen at Lerwick going north
early in November. Since my arrival at this station in July last from
Dhuheartach, not a single Eider Duck was seen. Only birds we see now
are from the shore (December 26, 1885), _viz._, Starlings, Sparrow
Hawks, Crows; a few Gulls flying about; Solan Geese all away."--Signed
J. N.

_Sumburgh Head._--James Youngclause (principal), Robert Gifford
(assistant). During the summer a great number of Gulls breed in the
cliffs. Also large numbers of Guillemots, Razorbills, which arrive
first and second week of August. Also lots of Starlings and Grey
Linnets, but these and the Gulls remain the whole year. Under date of
16th January 1886, Mr Y. writes: "Birds have been very scarce; not one
stranger since the 27th November." Two schedules.

_North Ronaldshay._--John Tulloch (principal). Two schedules. Gannets
began flying north about the 18th April.

_Auskerry._--John M'Donald (principal). Three well-filled schedules.

_Pentland Skerries._--Signed by John Gilmour (assistant). Eleven very
full schedules. Mr Gibson (principal), Mr Frazer, and Mr M'Gee are all
much interested in the subject. They have been supplied with a copy of
C. A. Johns' "British Birds in their Haunts," published by the Society
for Promoting Christian Knowledge. Harvie-Brown visited Pentland
Skerries in July 1885. "Skerries" is a misnomer for the larger island.
It is a lovely island, richly grassed, feeds twenty sheep on 114 acres;
very level, fine turf, rich in daisies and buttercups, producing
lovely milk, and admirably situated to intercept migration. Elsewhere
an account of the birds seen there in summer will be incorporated.[2]
Pentland Skerries, along with Isle of May, as usual, shared the
heaviest rushes and returns, and Bell Rock very fully participated. The
rush seemed to be about the middle of October, continuing, but not so
heavily, through that month, and increasing again up to the middle of
November. On the 11th November our reporters say: "Never saw so many
Fieldfares flying round the light" as to-night.

[Footnote 2: Vertebrate Fauna of Shetland, Caithness, and West
Cromarty, by T. E. Buckley and J. A. Harvie-Brown, in press. There can
scarcely be a doubt that this station would quickly rival the "Isle
of May" in rarities, if the men had equal facilities of obtaining
specimens. If they had guns, also, they might add largely to their
stock of wholesome fresh food.]

_Dunnet Head._--David Laidlaw (principal) sent one schedule. Visited by
H.-B. in 1885. It is easily understood why it is not a good station,
notwithstanding the favourable description of light. The light is 346
feet above the sea, and does not face clear to eastward except upon the
horizon, a great cliff top intercepting the downward rays at a distance
of at least 100 yards from the tower.

_Holborn Head._--No return. Visited by H.-B. in 1885. The position is
decidedly bad, being quite too land-locked both to east and west. I
had a long chat with Mr Charles Christian, the second light-keeper,
but did not see Mr Charleston, the principal. Mr Christian told me
that not a bird has appeared at the lights since he came last year in
May. He was at Cantick Head, another station utterly unfrequented by
birds.--(Extract from H.-B.'s Journal.)

_Noss Head._--No return. Visited by H.-B. in 1885. Mr Greig (principal)
has been here eleven years, and reported that scarcely a land-bird
has ever been known to strike the dome or light, or "been observed
on migration day or night" (_sic_). Noss Head Light lies open to
the N.N.E., E.S.E., and S.S.E., and is only 175 feet above the sea
(Pentland Skerries Light is 170 feet, and Isle of May 240 feet); and
no land interruptions occur. Nevertheless, it utterly fails to attract
birds, as, indeed, do most stations with an abrupt and precipitous
coast, for reasons which we think are almost self-evident.--(See
General Remarks.)

_Cromarty._--Robt. S. Ritson (principal) sends one schedule. He says:
"No birds struck lantern during the year. Rather more birds observed
than in 1884. Pervading winds were again westerly from January to
April, but between May and October easterly; but the change of wind
brought no accessions of birds. Land-locked station.

_Chanonry._--John M'Gill (principal) and Wm. Irvine (assistant) send
one light schedule, and the remarks: "There is no difference from the
remarks of other years. The migration this year seems to be for the
purposes of feeding. No certain migration observable." Mr M'Gill,
however, goes on to say; "The Sand Martins, when congregated on Major
M'Kenzie's yacht-rigging from the bowsprit up to the mast, and down to
the end of the jib-boom, made a curious sight, when lying at anchor."
This was on the 24th August 1885.

_Bell Rock._--James Jack (principal) sends as usual carefully and
well-filled schedules, quite among the best received. Under date
of 16th October, at the time of a rush, Mr Jack has the following
general remarks: "Birds began to arrive at 7.30 P.M., striking lightly
and flying off again; unable to tell of what species. Numbers went
on increasing till midnight, when it seemed that a vast flock had
arrived, as they now swarmed in the rays of light, and, striking hard,
fell dead on balcony, or rebounded off and went over the rail, falling
into the sea. At 3 A.M. another flock seemed to have arrived, as the
numbers now increased in density; at the same time, all kinds crowded
on to the lantern windows, trying to force their way to the light. The
noise they made shrieking and battering the windows, etc., baffles
description. The birds were now apparently in thousands. Nothing ever
seen here like it by us keepers. Wherever there was a light visible in
the building, they tried to force their way to it. The bedroom windows
being open as usual for air all night, they got in there and put the
bedroom light out. All birds went off at 6 A.M., going W.S.W. Redwings
were most in numbers; Starlings came next. Blackbirds, Fieldfares, and
Larks." The later rush in November seems to have taken place entirely
at night also: "No birds were seen throughout the daylight of the 11th
and 12th November, and the movement ceased at midnight of the 12th,"
when the wind became strong from S.W. All birds visiting here between
October 18 till December 12 were composed of both old and young, also
male and female; but young birds most in number. Many hundreds lost
their lives.

_Inchkeith._--Robt. Grierson sends a schedule with the following diary:
"During the night of the 5th September a small flock of birds was
observed hovering around the lantern at 11 P.M., wind W., light breeze
and haze, and two young Stonechats were caught." At midnight, also, two
more; and other small movements are given.

_Fidra._--William Ross. Arrival of the Solan Geese noted on March 27;
also Eider Ducks. Mr Ross sends two well-filled schedules, but is
disappointed with the results. He need not we think, as Fidra lies
somewhat land-locked and out of the stream. We are much obliged to
him for the first Schedules from the new Firth of Forth Station. Mr
Ross writes under date of July 24: "Solan Geese, Gulls, and all sea
birds have deserted our island entirely. About a dozen sparrows are
now our only feathered visitors;" and on Aug. 4th--"Having been on the
mainland, I was quite surprised to see the numerous and varied flocks
of many kinds of birds, not one of which came near our island."

_Isle of May._--J. Agnew (principal), Messrs Young and Anderson
(assistants), send twenty full schedules, indicating a very heavy
migration, past this favoured isle. At present a staff of men are busy
putting in electric light machinery here. It will be curious to watch
the result next season.

New occurrences continually turn up at Isle of May, and this year
we have to record amongst rarities and acquisitions the Common
Dotterel (_Endromias morinellus_, L.), the Red Backed Shrike (_Lanius
collurio_), and Ortolan Bunting (_Emberiza hortulana_)--two specimens
obtained. Also Turtle Dove (_Columba turtur_, L.)--one shot; and
the Dipper was obtained for the first time, though it had been seen
before, as stated in previous reports. It proved to be the British
form. Specimens of these are added to the collection at Isle of May.
We gave earlier notice of the first three above enumerated, in the
_Proceedings of the Royal Physical Society_, Edinburgh, as we belong
to that class of naturalists who do not believe in withholding facts
until they become rusty. To do so may be useful for selfish motives and
personal _kudos_, but is not calculated to promote further study, and
is, indeed, calculated to delay it.

Continuous E. winds at the beginning of May caused a vast rush on 2d to
4th May of many species. Mr Agnew writes: "The long tact of S.E. wind
has brought an extraordinary 'rush' of birds to the island yesterday
(on the 3d) and to-day; the night of the 2d, and all day of the 3d, was
constant rain and fog. For a day or two previous to the 3d, we had a
few birds, and some strangers; but they were only the heralds of the
great army. I have seen something like it in the 'fall,' but never in
the spring. These last two days we have 'birds; birds everywhere.' I
think I have identified them all, except the three mentioned inside. If
you had been here to-day, what a bag you would have made."--Signed J.
A., 4th May 1885.

In the schedule Mr Agnew says:--

"3d May.--An extraordinary rush of migrants to-day; never seen anything
like it in spring. To attempt to give numbers is simply useless. I
will just give you the names in succession. I can't spare a line
for each.--Fieldfares, Redwings, Ring Ouzels, Blackbirds, Lapwings,
Dotterels, Rock Pigeons, Hawk, Meadow Pipits, Redstarts, Whinchats,
Tree Sparrows, Yellow Wagtails, Ortolan Bunting (obtained), Robins,
Chiff-Chaffs, Wood Warbler, Black Cap Warbler, Marsh Tit, Whitethroats,
and Pied Flycatchers." And on 4th still increased in numbers, but wind
shifted this morning to E. from S.E.

Mr Agnew mentions also "a bird" he has "often reported," a "grey bird
with a white feather each side of the tail, and larger than a pipit,
kind of slate colour, light streak through eye, black hood over its
head." And another; "colour of Tree Sparrow, but smaller grey white
belly, slate-coloured head; never seen the latter before."

In autumn Mr Agnew says: "Up to 14th October migration was very
meagre,--something like last year, and from the same cause; gales of
wind from the W. and N.E. That we have any at all shows how determined
the birds are to keep their usual time of migration, even when under
great difficulties."

Under date of Oct. 17th--"A great rush of migrants at Isle of May
"--Mr Agnew has the remarks: "The Woodcock was killed on the S.E.
side, and the other birds on the N.W. side. Thus the migrants have
been exactly meeting one another; and this is just as I would have
expected,--the Woodcocks _coming_ to us, and the others _leaving_ us.
It would appear as if they were all waiting a favourable opportunity
to go. Seventeen Woodcocks were shot during the day on the 17th Oct.
on Isle of May."--J. A. The birds striking the N.W. side consisted
of Redwings, Larks, Starlings, Blackbirds, Chaffinches, Whinchats,
Chiff-Chaffs, Willow Warblers, Golden Crests, one Crow, and the rush
continued over the 18th. These birds, striking the N.W. side, no doubt
reached our shores further north, and were "coasting," or, as we have
remarked in previous reports (as in the case of Woodpigeons and Larks),
were crossing the Firth of Forth from north-westerly directions to
southeasterly ones. The wind at the time of this migration was light E.
The Woodcock would thus travel at fair advantage, and strike the S.E.
side; and the other birds which struck the N.W. would have a still more
favourable flight, with the wind _beam on the left shoulders_.

We consider these remarks by Mr Agnew most valuable, as bearing out
previous experience in a remarkable manner.

Again, under date of 10th Nov., Mr Agnew writes: "Thousands of
Fieldfares, etc., etc. The vast rush to-day were flying exactly in the
same direction as the great rush of the 17th Oct., and had it been at
night, the lantern would have been swarming, and they would have struck
it exactly on the N.W. side as before; wind S., but very nearly calm.
The birds were flying high in the air; a few lighted, but immediately
went on again direct S.E. I never saw anything like it in daylight
before. There were also blackbirds, male and female, on the island
to-day, but the males predominating."

Again, on the 26th Nov., Mr Agnew writes: "10 A.M., S.E. gale. Two
Woodcocks shot. This gale came on at 9 A.M. on the 23d, and is still
increasing, and the glass falling. It is now 4 P.M., and the glass
29·05. There has been nothing like this from the S.E. for years. The
barometer fell to 28·65 on the night of the 26th."


Separate Report under Genera and Species.

Turdidæ.--_Spring._--In February indication of Fieldfares on 23d and
26th, and with S.W. gale at Isle of May on 22d, 23d, and 27th, an
unusual experience here to appear so frequently as they have done. A
few also appeared 2d, 3d, 4th, and a good many on 9th, with N.W. winds.
Again a few March 15th, 18th, and 24th at Isle of May. In April, only
one record. Isle of May; but in May, flocks and stragglers for first
three weeks at Pentland Skerries; prevailing winds, N.E.; no very
strongly defined "rush," only on one day, flocks at Isle of May. A few
unimportant movements of other _Turdidæ_, _viz._, Song Thrush, Redwing
at Stations VII., VIII., XIV., and XXVII. The Ring Ouzel is noted at
Pentland Skerries, but marked as "very rare here" (20th April), and
again May 2d and onwards for several days.

_In Autumn._--An early movement of Song Thrushes, July 4th and 17th,
at Pentland Skerries; wind variable on 4th, and light N.W. on 17th,
and one bird at Isle of May on 27th. Unimportant again at Isle of
May in Aug. 13th and 18th, and ditto in September at same station.
_First_ Fieldfares on 29th, with light W. wind; but in October real
migration set in of _Turdidæ_, earliest as usual at Isle of May; on
8th a Fieldfare (wind shifting from N. to S.W.) followed by a single
bird. First record of Redwing again at Pentland Skerries, with light
N.N.E. airs, an apparent rush of which at same place between 26th
and 31st. Flocks and intermittent movements all the month from 8th
to end, of all three species. November, however, bulks largest from
Stations IV,, VII., VIII., IX., X., XIV., XV., and XXVII., during the
whole month. Fieldfares predominating far beyond the numbers of other
_Turdidæ_. Whilst many "flocks" are recorded all through the schedules
south of VIII. (N. Ronaldshay) to XIV. (Pentland Skerries), and even
appearances at XV, (Dunnet Head), fewer records are given north of
VIII., and none occur between XV. and XXVII. (Isle of May). A rush is
only very decidedly shown at Isle of May on 10th, when thousands of
Fieldfares and other Thrushes round station at 9.30 A.M., with a S.
wind, and flew on southwards. On the 17th there is a "rush" recorded
of Redwings at XXVII. at 1 A.M., light E. haze--six killed. Immense
numbers of the several species of _Turdidæ_,--_viz._, Fieldfares, Song
Thrushes, Redwings, but curiously we do not find a single entry of
Blackbirds anywhere during the whole Autumn Migration, which extended
all through December and January, though in smaller numbers as compared
with November. Prevailing wind all October, northerly and easterly;
south-easterly and easterly in November, but the rush came with due
S. wind. When westerly winds occurred, as usual fewer records. In
December, winds various, but more westerly than November, but in
January again back to E.[3]

[Footnote 3: _Addition to List of Birds of the Isle of May._--Dipper
(_Cinclus aquaticus_, L.), the British form--shot April 22d, 10 A.M.,
light west haze--now in Collection at Isle of May, under curatorship of
Mr J. Agnew.]

Saxicolinæ.--_Spring_, confined to April and May. Records from VIII.
(North Ronaldshay), XIV. (Pentland Skerries), and XXVII. (Isle of May)
of Wheatears, Whinchats, and Redstarts. The "Stonechats" of the N.
Ronaldshay Schedule are probably Wheatears, a rush of which took place
there on April 4th--the earliest record--at twelve noon; wind light
south. Wheatears arrived pretty numerously at XXVI I. , to breed there,
on 20th April. Earliest Redstart at XIV., with strong S.S.E. wind and
fog, marked "rare," on 29th April; but earliest at XXVII. on the 18th,
one [male], light west, and haze. Towards the end of May Redstarts
appeared in very small numbers; again at XIV., and two Whinchats.

_In Autumn._--Early departure of the old Wheatears from XXVII. (Isle of
May), before 22d July. This is noted as earlier than usual by Mr Agnew.
One bird noted at XIV. (Pentland Skerries) on 23d August, with N.N.E.
and driving rain.

Earliest southward movement of Redstart at XIV. on 14th August--a
single bird--wind N.W.; seen on island. At IV. (N. Unst) a "rush" of
Redstarts and Wheatears at night, wind light S.W., on 9th September.
At XXVII. a few old males on 18th September, followed by mixed old and
young on following day. Redstarts at IV. on 3d October, and a rush of
Whinchats at Isle of May at 1 A.M.--wind S.E., haze. Single record of
Whinchat in November at XXVII., and "Stonechats" at XXVIII. B. The new
station of Fidra, in the Firth of Forth, a single bird. On 22d July
most of the old Wheatears had left Isle of May--"an early date for them
to leave."--J. A.

Silviinæ.--_In Spring_, earliest Robin record on 13th and 17th
February at XXVII. (Isle of May)--"the first for a long time." Latest
spring record, also at XXVII., on 15th May. Most seen on 13th April,
at XXVII., N.N.E.; and several all day on XIV. (Pentland Skerries),
strong S.E., on 8th April. Cromarty sends one return of Robin on 2d
May. _Willow Warbler_--earliest, 29th April, at Isle of May; and Wood
Warbler at same place on 2d May, with strong S.E., fog and rain.
_Whitethroat_ at Isle of May, with light S. and S.E., between 13th and
24th--an indication of a rush lighting on S.E. side of lantern, with
light N.W., and rain on 24th.

_Autumn._--Species observed were Robin and Whitethroat; Robin most
prevalent, Whitethroat next. Earliest Robin at N. Unst, 26th July;
latest, 28th November, at I. of Fidra (but as this might only be local,
take latest at Dunnet on 14th, or Isle of May on 12th). If any rush
noticeable, about the 17th September.

Phylloscopinæ.--Gold Crests are recorded in April 12th and 13th, and
20th and 23d at XXVII.; few on the two first dates, rush on the last,
with W.S.W., and fog and drizzling rain. No other records from any
part of E. Coast in any spring month. Wood Warblers, 8th to 24th May;
a "great rush" all night on the 9th, with snow and hail showers, and
wind N.W. to N.E.; and again all night on 18th, with rain, hail, and
snow from N.E. [We can remember, on the 10th May, snow lay on the banks
of Spey two inches deep at Aberlour.--J. A. H. B.] Two Chiff-Chaffs are
also noted on 20th. All the above at XXVII. (Isle of May), and no other
spring records of Phylloscopinæ.

_In Autumn._--Earliest Chiff-Chaff, 27th July, at XXVII., 11 A.M.,
E., light fog; and again between the 12th and 24th August. Numbers on
13th, and number of males on 24th. On 13th, N.W. wind, strong, clear.
Also, on 15th, a _Willow Warbler_--light haze, struck S.E. side, light
W. wind; and a _Wood Warbler_ on the 24th--a fine male. In September,
a single Willow Warbler from N. Unst, light N.W., on 15th; and a few
_Gold Crests_ at XXVII. on 1st, and again on 17th and 19th--the latter
amongst the rocks on the E. side--light S.W. A rush of Chiff-Chaffs on
17th October at XXVII., light E., haze and rain--and Willow Warbler;
and then, on 18th and 19th, Gold Crests all night. Latest date of
autumn migration of Phylloscopinæ is of Chiff-Chaffs, on November 4th,
at XXVII.

Accentorinæ.--The only records are in October 1885, at XXVII., on 7th
and 19th. Two or three pairs are breeding there this summer, and of
late years it has become resident, "a good few having been here all the
winter."--J. A.

Acrocephalinæ.--In September, on the 5th, between 8 and 10 P.M., there
was a rush of many species over the island of XXVII., amongst which
were Reed and Sedge Warblers striking, also Whitethroats. [What were
named with a query "Immature Blue-Throated Warblers" turned out to
be immature Redstarts--J. A. H. B.] Of the Reed Warblers recorded,
when asked, Mr Agnew, distinguishing from the Sedge Warbler, says: "I
have your card about the Reed Warblers, and should they appear again,
I will try and procure specimens; but there seems no doubt as to
their presence here during the rush of Warblers reported in the last
Schedule."

Troglodytidæ.--Autumn of 1884, a few still seen on Isle of May in
beginning of January 1885. Spring of 1885, one at XXVII. (Isle of May)
on 10th, and at XIV. (Pentland Skerries) reported as being about the
rocks there all winter.[4] At VII. (Sumburgh Head), one all day going
about dykes--no doubt, a resident of the adjoining mainland. (A "Yellow
Wren," also at same place, may be either Willow _Wren_ or _Willow
Warbler_, or a Gold Crest?) This was on 31st March.

[Footnote 4: It does not appear whether the Wren is resident in
Pentland Skerries every winter, but it was certainly so in 1884-5. (See
above.)]

_In Autumn._--Earliest record at Pentland Skerries, September 20th,
seen in garden. In October, records from N. Unst, 27th--S.W., light
breeze (!!), clear--flying round rocks. [_N.B._--This record seems
to us to make it very desirable that specimens of the Common Wrens,
or their feet and wings, but better the whole birds, be sent us for
examination from this Station. We would like to see specimens, shot or
otherwise, obtained in summer, and also specimens obtained in October
or during the Autumn Migration. It might settle a very interesting
question. A little carbolic acid would preserve them quite well, if
dried after in the sun, or in the oven, or gradually in the kitchen.]
A good few records run through October, but no large numbers--at Unst
(XIV.) and XXVII.; and the same remark applies in November. The last
noted is in January 1886 at XXVII.--"a few"--and the one before, at
XIV., on 27th December, "seen on island." It is always remarkable to
observe the near proximities of dates between occurrences at Isle of
May and Pentland Skerries.

Motacillidæ.--The only month in the year, from January to December, in
which no return is made by Wagtails, is July 1885. All the entries are
under "Wagtail." [_N.B._--We would like to receive a good many Wagtails
from all Stations in every month if possible. A little carbolic acid
would preserve them.]

The _first_ spring Wagtail is recorded at XXVII. (Isle of May) on 24th
February, S.W. The last at same place on May 23d, but the species
breeds there. April is the busiest month in Wagtails. A "rush" at
N. Ronaldshay on April 4th. Next last date is at Fidra (XXVIII.
B.), flying about feeding. A record from Dunnet Head says; "1st
May.--Wagtails seen daily till end of July; breed about the cliffs,"
etc. The _Yellow Wagtail_ is recorded from XXVII. on 8th May. If it had
a black breast and very long tail, its right name is "Grey Wagtail,"
though yellow. If short tail, and very bright yellow, it is the true
_Yellow Wagtail, or Rays'_, a much rarer bird in Scotland. Was it the
same as one Mr G. E. P. and H.-B. shot on Isle of May in October 1884?

_In Autumn._--"Wagtails" begin to be observed on 17th July at XIV.,
and in about equal numbers in August (three dates in each month).
Increase a little in September, and show indication of movement at
XXVII. on 26th and 29th (old and young on 26th, and mostly old on
29th), only four dates at XIV. and XXVII., two at each. Two dates in
October at XXVIII.; 1st and 8th unimportant; and three in December
at same place--24th, 20th, and 26th. Noted, "These are extraordinary
occurrences;" and the one on 25th, "had very little white upon it."--J.
Agnew.

Motacillidæ 2.--Pipits.--First Spring Meadow Pipits at XXVII.--a single
bird; light N.E., clear on 10th March, and "a number" on 18th; gale
from W. for two days. Wind changed to N.E. at 5 A.M. In April, at XXVI.
(Bell Rock), on 17th and 18th; wind S.E., fog. _Rock Pipits._--At
XXVII. (Isle of May), an increase over residents observed on 4th April,
and more arrived to breed on 20th. Further increase on 2d May.

_In Autumn._--Meadow Pipit ("Mosscheeper") at N. Unst, 7 P.M.; fresh
N.W[1]. breeze and showers; and at XXVII. "mostly left" by 14th. A
rush on 9th September of "Mosscheepers" at IV. (N. Unst) at night;
wind S.W., light haze. Also at X. Ronaldshay "a number" of Rock Pipits
arrived on 4th September, "and remain all winter." At XXVII., old and
young mixed on 19th September. Last record of Meadow Pipits at IV., 1st
November, and of Rock Pipits at XXVI. (Bell Rock), on 22d November.

Laniadæ.--One Red-Backed Shrike at XXVII. on 5th May, 1·9 A.M.; light
N.E., clear, _obtained_;--_in mus._, Isle of May.

Muscicapidæ.--_Spring._--Earliest at XXVII. On May 1st and 2d, three
_Pied Flycatchers_ arrived at 4 P.M. on 1st, stayed 2d, and others seen
till 6th or 7th--a good number; wind S.E., haze and rain. Also on 2d,
several all day resting on XIV. (Pentland Skerries). Numbers again on
20th and 21st at same place, and numbers, also including one old male,
on 23d, and up to 24th. No other records in spring.

_In Autumn._--One female Pied Flycatcher, at XIV.; light E., and thick
haze. On 3d, numbers all day. At XXVII., some on 24th October; strong
E., clear. _Spotted Flycatcher_ at XXVII. One seen 11 A.M.; strong
S.W., clear.

_Addition to Isle of May, as above._--Red-Backed Shrike (_L. collurio_,
L.), May 5th, 9 A.M.; light N.E., clear. Shot;--_in mus._, Isle of May,
Curator, J. Agnew.

Hirundinidæ.--_Spring._--Very heavy returns of Swallows, commencing
lightly on 10th April; a few seen at N. Ronaldshay; E.N.E., light
clear; and on the 19th, at XXVII., one with the remark, "this is
early." First seen at XXVIII. B. (Fidra) on 24th. At X. (Auskerry)
"flocks remain till 14th June;" came with S.E.S. and N.E. winds.
Records numerous from X., XIV., XV., XIX., XXVII., and XXVIII. B. First
seen at XIV. on 14th May. No great appearance of a "rush." Seen more or
less all June at Pentland Skerries and Isle of May, but no June records
from other stations.

_In Autumn._--5th July at XIV., and of Martins 6th to 12th and
16th. One Swallow at Isle of May on 14th. All August Martins and
Swallows, and a "rush" of latter at XXVII. on 24th; light W., clear.
_Latest._--One Swallow and one Martin at XXVII. on 7th October.

Fringillidæ.--Every month in the year, more or less of different
species, as follows, in order of greatest numbers: Grey and Green
Linnets in February, March, April, and again in June; and House and
Tree Sparrows in May, and odd ones of the former during the other
spring months. Chaffinches scarce, and single records in February,
March, April, May; one each month, all at XXVII. (Isle of May). Twenty
Tree Sparrows in a flock, at XXVII., on 29th May; and daily large flock
of Sparrows at Fidra on 16th and 23d. Sparrow "rare" on XIV., seen
April 23d.

_In Autumn._--Large flock of Heather Linties (Twites) at Start Point
all the month of July. Grey Linnets (or perhaps these are Twites?) at
XIV. (Pentland Skerries), 27th July. In August, Sparrows at N. Unst;
N.N.W., fog. Grey Linnets (or Twites?) at XIV,, end of August; N.E.
Only one record in September at XIV.; none elsewhere, but October
bulks larger. Only stations sending any returns are XIV. and XXVII. in
October. Movement slack in first week, bulking largest 16th and 17th.
Rush of _Chaffinches_, _Linnets_, a few _Redpoles_ on 14th, and a few
_Siskins_ on 30th October.

_In November, up to 23d._--Chaffinches at N. Unst on 3d--light N.W.,
rain--and on 4th at XXVII. Green Linnets at N. Unst on 19th November,
and at VII. (Sumburgh Head) on 12th. Numbers on 5th at XIV. all day,
fresh W., clear; and also on XXVII., same day, a few; light W., clear.
Latest record of Green Linnets, December 18th; but Grey Linnets on 18th
January 1886, and Redpoles (three) on 23d, at XXVII.

We have overlooked also a few stray records of "Bramblings" on 6th and
7th April, at XXVII.; strong E. winds.

Emberizidæ.--_In Spring_, Snow Buntings. One seen on February 7th at
XXVII., and five on 27th; a number on 20th March at N. Ronaldshay on
the island. Gale: sleet--twenty-three struck and seven killed. In April
two flying about the rocks at Sumburgh Head on 6th--_the_ latest record
of the species in spring.

One _Reed Bunting_ at Pentland Skerries on February 27th; S. gale and
haze on island. Few records of Yellow Bunting in February and March,
and at XXVII. equally scarce. Only occasional also in April anywhere,
and same to June. _Common_ Bunting, first single bird at XIV. on 18th;
odd records till June on six dates till that time. Winds prevailing
from N.E. through E. to S.E. (very likely local movements).

_In Autumn._--Snow Buntings returned only from XIV. and XXVII. in
October, but in November at IV., VII., VIII., X., XIV., XV., XXVII.
all through the month, but not heavily as compared with other years.
Rush at VIII. (N. Ronaldshay), with S.E. gale; "flocks" frequent at
XIV., XV., not abundant at XXVII. during November. In September, a few
odd records only at VII. (Sumburgh Head) and XXVII. (Isle of May). No
records later than November 28th. One record of Common Bunting at XIV.
on 13th November. No records in autumn of any other species.

_Addition to Isle of May List._--Ortolan Buntings: Two specimens--one
shot 12.30 P.M.; light S.E., clear, thick fog and heavy rain all night.
Named by Mr Agnew correctly.--J. A. H. B. Mr Agnew adds under 29th May:
"There are two Ortolan Buntings, three Tree Sparrows, and one female
Redstart on the island since the 23d April."

Alaudidæ.--_Spring Migration._--In February records from XIV. and
XXVII. only; one single bird from the former on 14th, but a rush at
the latter on 17th, at 1 A.M. Light E., rain and haze; three killed.
Continuing in numbers on 18th, four killed and many wounded. Curiously
no records from Bell Rock on these dates or in this month. Likely the
wind too much due E. Fewer on 26th, but an increase again on 27th.
At Bell Rock, however, one bird on 15th, and three on 19th only.
Stragglers only from the direct wave. We are more than ever convinced
of the influence of the wave from Heligoland _not_ extending much
beyond Isle of May and Bell Rock. A new light will soon be on the light
vessel of the Carr Rock, off the East Neuk of Fife; and we are in hopes
that a good observer will be stationed there, who has had personal
experience and knowledge of birds before. On 13th March only one record
at Bell Rock; on 11th only two at XXVII. and one at Pentland Skerries.

In April "Crested Larks" are entered, and a previous entry of the same
is given on March 11th, both from XXVII. (Isle of May. [We would like
to have examined these, and added the _real_ Crested Lark to the Isle
of May Museum.] Not many records in April.

_In Autumn._--A few flying round the light on 24th August at N. Unst.
Desultory movements at N. Unst in September.

In October about the 15th, 16th, 18th, an appearance of a "rush," or
an actual "rush" on 18th at VIII. (N. Ronaldshay), and on 14th at
XXVII. (Isle of May). At former 40 struck. E.S.E. wind. At latter
"large numbers," with a S.W. gale, sleet. These no doubt are blown
_off the land_. Latest date 18th. But reports in newspapers of immense
gatherings of Larks near Dundee, St Andrews, and Midlothian and
elsewhere, in January and again in March, being only, no doubt, local
congregations caused by frost and snow in Scotland.

Sturninæ.--All returns for spring light. Earliest, February 9th at
XXVII., and 11th at XIV. From 16th to 20th light returns, flock on
18th. By the 11th March breeding birds had arrived and taken up their
haunts on XXVII., and about the same time an odd bird or two were
seen resting on rocks of XXVI. (Bell Rock). Wind light westerly. As
no records occur at Bell Rock at any other time in spring this year,
even these odd birds occurring just at the time of arrivals elsewhere
are significant perhaps of the general movement, these birds no
doubt having overshot the land. Odd records in April at Fidra; a pair
breeding there in May.

_In Autumn._--Earliest movement noticed at XXVII. "Large flocks of
young birds, strangers." No records anywhere in September. In October
movements noted at IV, (N. Unst) between 11th and 25th. On 11th flocks
flying east, with light S.E. wind and haze. Only one record at XXVI.
(Bell Rock) on 8th October. Rush decided at XXVII. on 17th, with strong
E., rain and haze; two killed. Small movements at IV, VII, (Sumburgh
Head), and XXVII. in November, and a few up to end of January 1886.

Corvidæ.--Earliest spring record of Rooks at XIV. (Pentland Skerries).
Strong N.W. wind on 28th February. Rooks are recorded from the
following stations:--VIII. (N. Ronaldshay), XIV, XXVII. (Isle of May);
but all returns are very light indeed. In the first week in March a
slight rush apparent at Sumburgh Head of Black and Hooded Crows--on
1st 50, on 6th 18, light N. to N.E.; and a few almost every day at
XXVII. at same time. Records of Carrion and Hooded Crows are from VII.
(Sumburgh Head), VIII., XIV., and XXVII. Earliest 1st March; latest
29th April. From three or four to eight or ten daily; long straggling
migration.

_Jackdaws_ at XIV. on 25th, and 26th two, light W.N.W,, clear; and at
same place seven on 8th June and one on 13th, no doubt visitors from
either the Caithness coast or from Orkney.

_Autumn._--Similar movements of _Black Crows_ at IV, on 30th July,
and at XIV. on 20th, 26th, two or three each time, Carrion Crows and
Hooded Crows reported in autumn from IV., VIII., XIV., XXVII., XXVIII.
B. (Fidra) in a pretty continuous and steady, though never heavy,
stream, massing largest at IV. and at XIV., two, three, four, to once
twelve (on 11th September at IV.) being the daily number observed.
Dating from 1st record, 26th July, at XIV., to latest record, January
26th, 1886, one bird at XXVII., with easterly and northerly gale.
_Rooks_--Infinitesimal movement; only two records, one in June and one
in December, both at IV. _Ravens_--Small number. Two at IV. on 22d
August, eight at IV. on 5th September, strong E., haze, feeding on
rock; and two on 20th October at same place. Four _Jackdaws_ stopped a
few days at N. Ronaldshay from the 6th November.

Cypselidæ.--At N. (Auskerry) flocks of Swifts seen on 1st May, with the
note "rarely seen till the middle of June, wind N. and N.E., showers."
Again seen at XXVII. on June 5th and 17th. We ourselves witnessed a
party of Swifts migrating close along the cliff-edge of Holborn Head,
on the N. coast of Caithness--"seven seen flying E., swiftly careering
above the cliff-edge of Holborn, and crossing in a direct line the Bay
of Thurso" (extract from Journal, 28th June 1885). We witnessed also
eight evidently still bent on migration, "flying in a bee-line down
Strathspey, high in air, at 11 A.M., near Black Boats station. Clouds,
heavy rains, showers, and N.W. wind" (_loc. cit._, May 16th, 1885).
There is undoubtedly a great highway of migration up and down the
valley of the Spey, We have abundant evidence of it.

In Autumn.--One record at IV. Two seen on 11th September, light S.,
clear.

Jynginæ.--Mr Agnew very ably describes the Wryneck as follows, and
it was afterwards identified and added to collection, and the tail,
which had been shot away, was recovered afterwards by chance by Mr
Wm. Evans, and restored to the specimen. Mr Agnew writes, and we
give it as showing how accurately to describe a bird for purposes of
identification:

"One bird, total stranger; very like a Partridge in markings; size of
a Lark; 4 toes on feet, 2 before and 2 behind; fore toes largest; one
of the hind toes not so large as the other; bill about the size of a
Pipit's; tongue protruding more than an inch, thickly covered with fine
hairs; ¼-inch of the tip horn, sharp as a needle. Don't know what it
is unless Ant-eater. Very sorry tail shot away. Sent to Small for the
Collection."--J. Agnew.

Cuculidæ.--April 26th, an early date of arrival, flew low from Dirleton
woods towards XXVIII. B. (Fidra); light S. breeze. In May, on 10th, at
Cromarty, fresh N.E., showers; on 16th at XXVII., fresh W.N.W.; and on
28th at same station, moderate S.W., clear. No autumn records.

Strigidæ.--No spring returns. _In Autumn._--Short-Eared Owls recorded
from XXVII. (Isle of May), one of 9th October, 6 P.M., N.W.; one
14th, N.E. gale; and one _shot_ on 31st. The only other record is at
IX. (Start Point), when "an Owl made its first appearance on the 6th
November."

Falconidæ.--Hawks, Sparrow Hawks, large Hawks, and Kestrel bulk pretty
regularly, mostly, however, single birds at XIV. and XXVII. in spring.
Many daily records no doubt refer to the same bird seen over and over
again, especially when such relate to Sparrow Hawks and Kestrels. Such
visits are no doubt only of local origin. "Large Hawks" at XXVII. are
not Peregrine Falcons, as such are well known to Mr Agnew, but probably
Buzzards or Harriers. One shot on 11th April unfortunately fell into
the sea and was not recovered. A "Dark-Brown Hawk" also noted on 11th
March at Isle of May.

_In Autumn._--In August many local visits paid to flights of small
birds at most insular stations sending returns, especially at IV., X.,
XIV., and XXVII. Falcons, Hawks, "large and small," few in September,
none in October recorded, and a few in November. In former years three
Eagles used to be seen regularly; are now believed to have been killed
out at IV., and we know that orders and rewards have been given to the
gamekeeper there for their destruction, as well as all "vermin."

Pelecanidæ.--Solan Geese.--Commencing in spring on 26th March, three
seen flying east at XIV, strong N. wind. We may state here that winds
seem to affect their passage very little at all times. Began to appear
flying N. past VIII. (N. Ronaldshay) on April 18th, and flying east
past XIV, 14th, 15th, and 20th--winds S.W. to S.S.E., and back to
S.W., on the three dates respectively. An April "flock," and "flocks
all day," by the 26th. Before that, usually in afternoons, and not
in forenoons. In June "the number of Gannets flying, usually N. past
VIII., increasing;" 10th, 19th, 20th, 25th, "flock," "flocks," "several
flocks," "three." July to September, constant in "flights" of two to
twelve. On September 4th, in haze and fog, flying N. past XIV., and
always N. past VIII. Going E. still in October, few in November, and
two records in December "seen fishing."

Ardeidæ.--At XIX. (Cromarty) seen on shore, 8 P.M., calm, haze. Two
records in April at Cromarty and Fidra (XXVIII. B.); one in May at
XXVII. (Isle of May); two in July--12th and 22d--flying N.E. at XIV.;
three to six records in September at XIX. (Cromarty) and XIV.; one in
October at XXVII.; and two records at XIV. and XXVII.

Anatidæ.--_In Spring._--Between 2d and 19th February, a flock of
"Barnacle Geese" seen almost daily flying E. at different hours of
forenoon and afternoon; and on 6th and 25th two flocks. Wind usually
N. and E., except on 8th, 9th, and 10th, when it was westerly. The
above at XIX. (Cromarty). I heard from other sources of the unusual
quantities of Brent Geese in the Cromarty Firth and elsewhere on the
East Coast this season--_i.e._, 1884-85--and also in 1885-86. The Geese
at XIX. continued to be observed on April 10th and 14th, 1885, but not
later.

Of _Swans_, only one record at VIII. (N. Ronaldshay), when six seen.

Of _Eider Ducks_, two flocks at XXVII.--light S.E., clear--on 2d March;
and by 16th April most of the Eiders left. On 4th April flock of fifty
males and females, about equal in number, at XXVII. This lot left
on 6th; numerous again on 20th; but breeding birds and a few about
XXVIII. B. (Fidra) on 26th April. In May, on 7th, 10th, and 16th,
three males and three females all day about island, and continued till
21st--breeding, no doubt. Long-Tailed Duck, 3, 2 [male] and 1 [female],
at XXVII. on 26th February 1885 (only record). A few Wild Ducks at
XXVIII. B. on 28th April. "Stock Ducks."--Two at XIV. on 2d May, where
they breed. Three "King Ducks" are noted at Isle of May, and the note
"different from Eider" added on 31st May 1885, and "had a white spot on
the black wings." (?)

_In Autumn._--We have records of Swans, Teal Duck, Stock Ducks, Ducks,
Eider Ducks (or Dunters), Wild-drake, Barnacle Geese, and Widgeon.
Stations returning are--VIII. (North Ronaldshay), returning "number of
Ducks of different kinds, as Widgeons, Teal," and Eider Ducks "made
appearance in great numbers" on 10th and 15th September respectively.
At XIV., by far the largest returns of Ducks of sorts greatest in
September. XIX.--"Barnacle" (?) Geese on 18th October.

At XXVII., record of Eiders, "all young birds except one old male,"
on 2d December; and latest record at XIV. of a flock near the rocks on
27th.

Columbidæ.--At XXVII. (Isle of May), a Turtle Dove shot on the 29th
May--wind W., light, clear. "This bird had been severely wounded
before."--J. A. A vast rush of Wood Pigeons is noted at XXVII. on
November 29th, flying S.W. in countless thousands, making a rushing
noise like a railway train. The wind after the great S.E. gale.[5]

[Footnote 5: Shifted to W., and on the 29th inclined to N.W., but
shifted back at night to N.E.]

Rallidæ.--Spring records are:--

Heard at 4 A.M. at XIX. (Cromarty) on 19th May--light E., clear.

Heard by Keeper at XIV. (Pentland Skerries) when over in South
Ronaldshay on 15th May. Heard on XIV. (Pentland Skerries), one pair, on
21st--wind S.E. They breed there.

One at XXVII. (Isle of May) on 14th, and again on 20th May.

No autumn records.

Charadriadæ.--A flock in February; probably belonged to last year's
migration, and can hardly be admitted as spring movement at XIV.
Oyster-Catcher--two entries in March and April; the former at XIV.,
where two arrived; and the latter at XXVII., where three were seen on
the 13th April.

_In Autumn._--Golden Plover arrived 5th August, and usually remain all
winter. Odd birds at XIV., also in August. On 6th September, single
record of a Golden Plover; single ditto in October at XIV. Straggling
records of little real use in tracing facts in November, when, however,
they do _bulk_ largest. Odd notices in December and January 1886.

Other species noted are Green Plover (very few records), Ring Plover
(November, only one entry), Oyster-Catchers (only taken notice of at
XIV.--a flock in September), and "a number all day" at 28th November at
XIV.

_Addition to Isle of May List and Collection._--Dotterel--One obtained,
3d May 1885 (See remarks under Diary of Stations), _in mus._, Isle of
May.--Curator, Jos. Agnew.

Scolopacidæ.--_In Spring._--Snipe, Curlew, Woodcock, Jack-snipe are the
species noted. Stations are XIV. and XXVII. only. Earliest Snipe record
at XIV. on 16th February (may belong to last season's movements); "a
number," and on 19th "a large number all day on island;" variable,
clear. No March records, and only one of Snipe in April at XXVII.;
S.E., light, clear on 18th. Jacksnipe--one at XXVII. on 5th April,
and one at same place on 1st May; S.E., light clear on former date.
_Curlew_ on XIV., rose off rocks; snow on ground on 19th February.
Several records flying over island at XIV., in April, with various
winds, and ditto in May, and "passing XXVII. at night on 22d May."
Woodcock-Two records, one at XXVII. on 5th April--E.N.E., haze--rose
off island; and one at XIV. on 11th--E.N.E., haze--rose off island.

_Autumn._--There are many entries in each month, as follows:--

      {   July.     Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.   Dec.  Jan. 1886.
  1.  { 11 entries.  8     10     15    17     9       2

These are composed principally of the following species, in order of
their abundance:--

      { Curlew--
  2.  {   July.     Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.   Dec.  Jan. 1886.  In all.
      { 10 entries.  7      9     3     3      1        0         33

      { Woodcock--
  3.  {   July.     Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.   Dec.  Jan. 1886.  In all.
      {    ...      ...    ...    4     6      5        1         16

      { Snipe--
  4.  {   July.     Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.   Dec.  Jan. 1886.  In all.
      {    ...       1       1   ...    2      1        1          6

      { Jacksnipe--
  5.  {   July.     Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.   Dec.  Jan. 1886.  In all.
      {    ...      ...    ...    1     2      2       ...         5

The stations returning in order of heaviest schedules and number of
entries, as follows:--

     {          July.   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.    Dec.   Jan.
     {   XIV.     6      6       8      6      9       2     ...    37
     { XXVII.     3     ...      2      6      5       6       2    24
  6. {  VIII.    ...    ...     ...     1      2     ...     ...     3
     {     X.    ...    ...     ...     5†    ...    ...     ...     5
     {    XV.    ...    ...     ...    ...    ...      1     ...     1
     {  XXVI.    ...    ...     ...    ...      2      1     ...     3

  † Some woodcock.

The records of VIII., X., and XV. refer entirely to Woodcock. The
above tables we use in this place, as possibly affording a guide for
future work in reducing our past seven reports to system. Under Table
I. gives the time of year and comparative abundance of birds in each
month. Table II. to V., comparative numbers of each species in each
month. Table VI. gives relative faunal value of each station in each
month. When decided "rushes" are noted, the word can be written in
under the number of entries. Earliest and latest records may be given
in footnotes to Table VI., or thus:--

  Curlew    Earliest,   3d July, at     XIV.  Latest, Dec. 6th, at XIV.
  Woodcock      "      15th Oct., at   VIII.    "     Jan. 21st, at XXVII.
  Snipe         "       1st Aug., at    XIV.    "     Jan. 13th, at XXVII.
  Jacksnipe     "      31st Oct, at   XXVII.    "     Dec. 11th, at XXVII.
  Whimbrel      "       8th July, at   VIII. (Only record).
                      _Rush._

The winds in autumn prevailed as follows:--

      July.           Aug.        Sept.     Oct.        Nov.     Dec.  Jan.
  N.E. to S.S.E.,  N.N.E. to    N.W. to     N.W.,     N. to W.    N.,   ...
   occasionally     S.S.E.,       S.W.,   north of      at       with   ...
     westerly     occasionally    once      XIV.;      XIV.;     snow   ...
       and             N.        S.S.E.  E. and N.E.  S.E. at    over   ...
     southerly.                           and S.E.     XXVII.;    all.  ...
                                            gale,       and
                                          south of     S.S.E.
                                            XXVII.   and S. at
                                                        VIII.

_Added to the List of Isle of May._--_A Ruff_ (_Machetes pugnax_) sent
for identification and for the collection, 5th May; light N.E. wind,
clear. Most of this huge migratory flight of all sorts left by the
afternoon of the 5th.

Sandpipers, Redshanks.--_Spring_, only two records of "Sandpipers," six
on 7th Feb. 1885, at XXVII.; light S.W., clear; and one "Yellow Shanked
Sandpiper" _found dead_ on 1st May at XXVII. [We would be glad of wings
and feet, or skin, of as many different Sandpipers as Mr Agnew can
send us. Parcels once a month, or with each schedule. The true "Yellow
Shanked Sandpiper" is a N. American species, but numbers of other
_species_ have yellow feet or legs.]

_In Autumn._--All records are crowded into September and November.
Species are Redshanks, "Grey Sandpiper," Common Sandpiper, Purple
Sandpiper. The "Common Sandpiper" is recorded from N. Unst, but the
species is uncertain. [Please send wings or skin.]

_Turnstones_ are recorded, 18th Sept., at XXVII.; W.S.W., light, clear.

Laridæ.--Every month in the year contains returns. Species noted are
Herring Gulls, "Dirty Allens" (or Skuas), "Gulls," "Black-Backed
Gulls," "Kittiwakes," "Grey Megs" (or Common Gull), Black-Headed
Gulls, "Skua Gulls," Richardson's Skuas.

_Spring and Autumn._--Every day plentiful in February, at XXVII. and
XXVIII. B. Gulls arrived at XV. (Dunnet Head)--and left in August
last--on 13th March 1885. Kittiwakes appeared first on 12th March, at
XXVII., "earlier than usual," and very numerous by 13th; "came from
S.;" N.W., light, clear. At XIV. seen all day flying around on 11th
April; E.N.E., haze'; two Black B. Gulls sitting on rocks on 30th;
S.S.E., haze. By April 20th, Kittiwakes had settled down in summer
quarters on XXVII., and were in "multitudes" by 27th May. At XIV. a
pair of Herring Gulls bred in 1884, and again in the present year, on
same place; not before. In May, hundreds Black H. Gulls on the lochs
near VIII. to breed.

Records unimportant in June and July, except that "Dirty Allens" are
recorded at IV. on 2d July, and "Skua Gulls" at XIV. on 7th. In August,
movement of Kittiwakes and other Gulls, and records continue numerously
through the remaining months.

G. Terns,--a number arrived to hatch, "as usual," at VIII. on 14th May,
and Lesser Terns at XIX. on 24th May. The latter disappeared again on
26th Aug.

Procellariidæ.--_Autumn_, July 3d, flying about the rocks at X.
(Auskerry). In August, occasionally striking lantern at IV., VII., IX.
(Start Point), and XV. (Dunnet Head). They breed at IX. among ruins of
house, and under stones on shore.

September,--odd birds striking at IV. and at XIV. on five dates; three
on 2d Sept, at IV., and two at same place on 6th. One record at IV. in
October, and one at same place in November, usually in foggy or rainy
weather.

Alcidæ.--More or less records every month. Arrivals. First spring
visit of Guillemots and Razorbills at XXVII. on 8th March; remained
in thousands to 15th; fewer up to 24th; disappeared and returned in
multitudes to breed by 13th April; Puffins, Razorbills, and Guillemots.
Also at VIII. "Rock Birds seen flying N. daily till 8th May."
_N.B._--_Black Guillemots_ recorded at XXVII. on 5th May.

_In Autumn._--Puffins last seen at XIV. on 7th Aug., and all other Rock
Birds left except Kittiwakes, on the same day at XXVII.

Flock of Guillemots hung about XIV. for a time, and a few more seen on
24th. Large numbers of Guillemots and Razorbills, from 16th to 18th,
at XXVII., when all left, and after a W. gale large numbers on 2d Dec.
and again on 31st Dec. and seen occasionally till end of January.
_N.B._--Black Guillemots, one seen at XXVII. on 27th Jan. 1886. We
think it quite possible _Black Guillemots_ still breed on Isle of May,
perhaps one pair.




EAST COAST OF ENGLAND.


Schedules were sent to forty-five stations, lighthouses, and
light-vessels, and returns have been received from forty-two. The total
number of schedules sent in is eighty-four, and the greatest number
from any single station, nine from Mr Thomas H. Cutting, of the Farn
Lighthouse; and six from Mr Thomas O. Hall, of the Longstone Lighthouse.

The East Coast stations included in this report are:--

  Longstone L.H.                 Thomas O. Hall.
  Farn, Inner, L.H.              Thomas H. Cutting.
  Coquet Island L.H.             William Evans.
  Tees, 5 Buoy L.V.              Henry Harbord.
  Tees Breakwater L.H.           M. Grant.
  Whitby High L.H.               John Odgers.
  Flamborough L.H.               Charles Hood.
  Spurn L.H.                     James B. Smith.
  Spurn L.V.                     _Nil._
  Outer Dowsing L.V.             William Stock.
  Inner Dowsing L.V.             William King.
  Llyn Wells L.V.                George Rees.
  Dudgeon L.V.                   J. F. Warder and J. H. Harrison.
  Hasbro' L.V.                   J. Nicholas and B. V. Darnell.
  Hasbro' L.H.                   _Nil._
  Hunstanton L.H.                Wm. Westmoreland.
  Cromer L.H.                    C. H. Overton.
  Winterton L.H.                 John Watson and John Leggett.
  Leman and Ower L.V.            J. Artis and John Bowen.
  Newarp L.V.                    C. Campbell and W. Rees.
  Cockle L.V.                    Charles Perfrement and E. Cole.
  Orfordness L.H.                J. Garrett.
  Corton L.V.                    I. H. Johnson and W. Bowen.
  Languard Point L.H.            Owen Boyle.
  Shipwash L.V.                  David Dale.
  Galloper L.V.                  P. Frost.
  Kentish Knock L.V.             W. R. Carter and W. Dorney.
  Swin Middle L.V.               Samuel Pender.
  Tongue L.V.                    John Webber.
  Nore L.V.                      _Nil._
  Goodwin L.V.                   David Johns.
  Gull L.V.                      Francis Harvey and J. Jenkins.
  South Sand Head L.V.           F. G. Foreman.
  East Side L.V.                 Edward le Gallais and W. Nicholls.
  Varne L.V.                     _Nil._
  Hanois L.H.                    Charles Williams.

Reports and notes have also been received from:--

  Roker, Sunderland                       Alfred Crawhall Chapman.
  S. S. "Aycliffe"                        John Osborn Morgan (2d engineer).
  Seaton-Carew                            C. Donald Thompson.
  Redcar                                  T. H. Nelson.
  Flamborough                             Matthew Bailey.
  Spurn                                   Wm. Eagle Clarke.
  Spurn                                   Philip Lawton.
  Spurn                                   J. Fisher.
  East Lincolnshire                       John Cordeaux.
  Northrepps and Cley                     J. H. Gurney, Jun.
  Yarmouth                                Arthur Patterson.
  Yarmouth                                Benjamin Dye.
  Yarmouth                                G. Smith.
  Thanet                                  Lord Clifton.
  Malmo, Sweden                           Frank R. Newton.

Notes also bearing on the migration of birds on the east coast of
England have been utilised from the _Zoologist_, _Naturalist_, and.
_Field_ newspapers; also from MS. notes made at Cley, Norfolk, in the
autumn of 1885 by Messrs G. E. and F. D. Power.


Separate Notes on each Species.

TURDINÆ.--Missel-Thrush, _Turdus viscivorus_.--Spring migration, March
25th, 1885: Farn L.H., two. Autumn: Roker, Sunderland, August 9th, 7
P.M., "for about an hour a continual stream kept flying over the lawn
at Silksworth; they were about one hundred yards high, going from N.E.
to S.W., in parties of two or three, then twenty or thirty at once."
Teesmouth, October 11th, great rush, "thousands in one particular
field." North-East Lincolnshire, October 20th, great many. Common
Thrush, _T. musicus_.--Spring, 1885: Longstone L.H., March 13th,
night, N. hazy, several round lantern. Northrepps, middle of March,
many moving north.[6] Autumn; An enormous immigration, first indicated
at Farn L.H., July 3d to 11th, a few none in August, sparingly in
September, and an enormous rush from October 12th to 18th, covering
the east coast, and, more or less, continuous night and day on 15th
and 16th, wind E.N.E. A second rush November 8th to 12th, and less
at intervals to end of month; a few Farn L.H. throughout January to
February 10th, 1886. Redwing, _T. iliacus_.--Spring, 1885: Thanet,
April 19, last seen. Autumn; Farn L.H., September 15th, first. An
enormous immigration in October, much the largest recorded. The bulk
arriving in two great rashes, covering the east coast, from October
15th to 17th, night and day; and again November 9th to 17th, but in
less numbers. Hasbro' L.V. on 22d and 23d, all day; a few at Farn L.H.
to December 3d, when the migration of this species ceased. Fieldfare,
_T. pilaris_.--Spring, 1885: North-East Lincolnshire, March 26th,
large flocks in coast marshes. Thanet, April 19th, last seen. Farn
L.H., May 4th, fifteen. Autumn: Dudgeon L.V., July 7th, one young
bird caught on board; October 15th to 26th, first arrivals on east
coast--a great rush on 15th and 16th at various stations, and a second
very large immigration, old birds, November 8th to 12th. Longstone
L.H., November 8th, S. to S.W., one on gallery at midnight; 9th,
10th, and 11th, great rush night and day, and up to 10.30 P.M. on
12th, and in less numbers at intervals on east coast to end of first
week in January 1886. Shipwash L.V., January 23d, many till midnight,
one killed. In North-East Lincolnshire, large numbers of old birds
arrived at intervals from the last week in November to middle of
January 1886, either direct from the Continent, or from more northern
localities in Great Britain. Blackbird, _T. merula_.--Spring, 1885:
Migration observed at Longstone L.H. April 4th and 12th to W. Farn
L.H. March 13th to May 4th. Whitby, March 13th and 14th, E. to W.
during night. Autumn: October 15th to 18th, very large arrivals both
by night and day, and again from November 8th to 12th, in both cases
covering the east coast. Corton L.V., November 21st, noon, twenty to
W.N.W.; and Dudgeon L.V., November 24th, last recorded. Ring-Ousel,
_T. torquatus_.--Spring, 1885: Spurn L.H., April 9th, male and female.
Farn L.H., April 12th to May 4th, Longstone L.H., 23d, S., one. Thanet,
22d, two old males; 23d and 25th, younger males; 30th, females. Autumn:
Spurn, August 25th; Flamborough, October 6th, many, Cromer L.H., 16th,
all night, seven killed. Thanet, 16th, N.E. gale, several; 22d, E,, old
males and old females.

[Footnote 6: Malmo, Sweden, May 6th, flock of thrushes to N.E.]

CINCLINÆ.--Black-Bellied Dipper, _Cinclus melanogaster_.--October
23d, E. and N.E. gale, one shot on morning of 24th. Humber Bank, in
Stallinborough parish, great flight of Woodcock at the same date.

SAXICOLINÆ.--Common Wheatear, _Saxicola ænanthe_.--Spring, 1885:
Yarmouth, February 24, one shot on denes. Hunstanton L.H., March 15th,
one. Farn L.H., April 5th, S.S.E., two; 7th, E. all day, and the same
on 10th and 11th, E.N.E. and E. Great Cotes, 11th, first. Hanois L.H.,
Guernsey, 10th, many at night at north light. Tees L.V., 22d, six, and
many to May 28th, and eight on June 7th, general direction of flight
S.E. to N.W.; rushes on May 10th and 20th. Longstone L.H., April 23d,
N.E., 4 A.M., several. Flamborough, May 3d to 6th, E. (4), many with
Redstarts and Pied Flycatchers.[7] Autumn: Migration first indicated
at Tees L.V. August 3d, and Farn L.H. on 7th and 9th. On the 15th a
flock of twenty alighted on board the s.s. "Aycliffe" in the English
Channel, remaining for two hours, and then left; were observed in
considerable numbers at several stations throughout September to middle
of October. Is last recorded at the Hasborough L.V. October 1 6th, one.
Desert-Chat, _S. deserti_.--Spurn, October 17th, one, a female, shot;
has been previously obtained once in Scotland, and twice in Heligoland.
Whinchat and Stonechat, _Pratincola rubetra_ and _rubicola_.--Spring:
Farn L.H., May 4th E.N.E., many of both all day. Whitby L.H., April
22d, one Stonechat. Autumn; Whitby L.H., September 19th, one struck.
Hasbro' L.V., November 10th, 2.30 A.M., two killed. The Whinchat
does not appear to be observed or distinguished on migration by our
recorders. Redstart, _Ruticilla phœnicurus_.--Thanet, April 16th,
males; 23d, females. Longstone L.H., May 1st, E, rain, one adult male.
Flamborough, 3d, N.E., large number of males, with Pied Flycatchers.
Farn L.H., 4th, E.N.E. all day. Malmo, Sweden, April 26th, two. Autumn:
Are first recorded at Thanet July 19th, females and young. At several
stations from August 17th to end of September; last at Spurn October
4th, W.S.W., with Wheatears. Black Redstart, _R. titys_.--Yarmouth,
March 15th, adult male; November 3d, adult female. Longstone L.H.,
October 17th, one female Redstart. This entry probably refers to this
species, which, as a rule, is observed on the east coast about a
fortnight after the migration of the common Redstart has ceased.[8]

[Footnote 7: In the spring of 1886 I received by post one adult male
Wheatear, in summer plumage, caught in a rabbit trap on March 26th in
North Northumberland. In a late schedule from the Farn L.H. two are
recorded on February 22d, at 5 P.M., on the island, and again two on
March 25th. The earliest record for East Lincolnshire this spring is a
pair on the Humber Embankment on March 29th.]

[Footnote 8: The occurrences, so far recorded by the committee, of the
Black Redstart on the east coast of Great Britain in the autumn, range
between October 23d and November 3d.]

SYLVIINÆ.--Red-Spotted Bluethroat, _Cyanecula suecica_.--Spurn, October
7th, two. Redbreast, _Erithacus rubecula_.--Spring, 1885: Longstone
L.H., April 7th, S.E., one. Farn L.H., 10th, 11th, and 12th, E.N.E.,
several. Hasbro' L.V., May 22d, one to W.S.W. Autumn: Considerable
immigration between the Farn Islands and Guernsey, from September 8th
to November 12th; rush on October 16th, observed at Spurn, Lincolnshire
coast (very large numbers), Hasbro' L.V., Tongue L.V., and Thanet; and
again from November 10th to 12th at Inner Dowsing L.V., Kentish Knock
L.V., South Sand Head L.V. The greatest number seen at any one time,
Hasbro' L.V., October 2d, one hundred to one hundred and fifty, at 6
P.M., from S.E. to N.W., and Kentish Knock L.V. on November 10th, fifty
to sixty, with tits from 2 A.M. to daybreak, and then going north.
Whitethroat, _Sylvia rufa_.--Hanois L.H., April 10. Malmo, Sweden, May
4th. Hunstanton L.H., 20th, S. (5), 1 A.M., nine killed. Autumn: July
19th, Thanet, the first, and are last recorded Hanois L.H. September
17th, N.E. (4), midnight, along with Blackcaps. Lesser Whitethroat,
_S. curruca_.--Spring: Great Cotes, April 23d. Autumn: The first at
Thanet August 24th to 27th, and last at Longstone L.H. September 30th.
Blackcap, _S. atricapilla_.--Spring: Thanet, May 5th, males; 6th,
females. Return September 17th, 19th, and 25th at Hanois L.H., Thanet,
and Languard L.H. Garden Warbler, S. salicaria.--Return August 22d at
Spurn, and September 20th at Thanet.

PHYLLOSCOPINÆ.--Golden-Crested Wren, _Regulus cristatus_.--Spring:
At Great Cotes and Thanet on March 8th; Longstone L.H. May 1st, 2
P.M.,one. Autumn: A very considerable immigration first observed at
Languard L.H. August 21st, 5.15 A.M., one. The next at Hanois L.H.
September 17th, E., O.R. about lantern at midnight; are last recorded
on November 11th. Rushes indicated at Flamborough on October 6th,
and at Farn L.H., Hasbro' L.V. (twenty), Lincolnshire coast. Cockle
L.V., and Thanet on October 16th and 17th; Teesmouth October 23d
and 24th; Inner Dowsing L.V., Leman and Ower L.V., Kentish Knock
L.V.,and South Sand Head L.V. on November 10th and 11th. Chiff-Chaff,
_Phylloscopus collybita_.--Spring: First in North Wales and Norfolk
April 2d; return Thanet August 21st to September 24th. Willow-Wren, _P.
trochilus_.--Return Thanet July 19th and August 5th. Spurn, August 18th
to S. Cley, Norfolk coast, September 7th, E., great numbers in scrub,
and increasing; 17th, second rush. Wood-Wren, _P. sibilatrix_.--Spurn,
August 14th; Thanet, 22d and 27th.

ACROCEPHALINÆ.--Sedge Warbler, _A. schœnobænus_.--Spurn L.H., September
8th, one killed.

ACCENTORIDÆ.--Hedge Sparrow, _Accentor modularis_.--Cley, Norfolk
coast, September 18th, many. Newarp L.V., October 17th, rush with
others. Goodwin, east side L.V., 23d, a few on board. Bearded Reedling,
_Panurus biarmicus_.--Yarmouth, February, last week, bearded tits,
several flocks, numbers shot.

PARIDÆ.--Spring: Hanois L.H., April 10. Blue-Titmouse.--Autumn:
Great Cotes, October 11th. Blue and Coal Titmouse, several. Whitby
L.H., 15th, several Titmice about lighthouse garden. Kentish Knock
L.V., November 10th, fifty to sixty Robins and Tits from midnight
to daybreak, and then to N. Inner Dowsing L.V., 10th, one. South
Sand Head L.V., 11th, Robin and Tits. Common Creeper, _Certhia
familiaris_.--Spurn, August 14th. Common Wren, _Troglodytes
parvulus_.--Winterton L.H., September 6th, one at 2 A.M. on lantern;
8th, one at 4 A.M., and November 3d, one. Orfordness L.H.; September
13th, 7 A.M., three with Robin. Farn L.H., October 23d, two. South Sand
Head L.V., November 12th and 13th, Wrens on deck; and Kentish Knock
L.V., 13th, two at 4 P.M., went to roost on board.

MOTACILLIDÆ.--Pied Wagtail, _M. lugubris_.--Spring, 1885: Tees L.V.,
February 4th, N.W., four to N.W.; 27th, with Titlarks to N.W. Hanois
L.H., February 12th, a few. Great Cotes, 25th, many, with Titlarks.
Whitby L.H., March 8th, one. Thanet, 11th to 19th. Farn L.H., 11th,
two; and Longstone L.H., May 9th, two to W. Autumn: Return Thanet
August 2d, young; 26th, old. Hanois L.H., November 20th, twelve to
S.E. Blue-Headed Wagtail, _M. flava_.--Thanet, April 22d, male; May
4th, old female and young bird in second plumage. Yellow Wagtail,
_M. raii_.--Spring, 1885: Great Cotes, April 18th; and Thanet, 26th,
first. Autumn: Spurn, August 14th, a few immature Yellow Wagtails; 23d,
thousands, "the whole district ablaze with them;" 24th, less numbers.
Thanet, 20th and 21st. Cley, September 18th, in parties; 23d, three or
four. Grey Wagtail, _M. melanope_.--Autumn: Great Cotes, September,
first and second weeks, young birds swarming in bean-fields; October
15th, first, old. Cley, September 9th, first. Thanet, 28th and 30th,
two each day. In the spring of 1885 were first seen at Malmo, Sweden,
on April 7th, two, "a sure sign to begin to plough." Meadow Pipit,
_Anthus pratensis_.--Spring: Great Cotes, February 25th, many, with
Pied Wagtails; Tees L.V., 27th, some with Wagtails to N.W. Autumn:
Cley, September 16th, great many. Roker (Sunderland), October 3d
and 7th. Farn L.H., 23d, E.S.E. (4), great many. Rock Pipit, _A.
obscurus_.--Cley, September 22d, three or four; 23d, several. Golden
Oriole, _Oriolus galbula_.--Thanet, June 9th and 23d (see remarks under
"General Notes").

LANIIDÆ.--Red-Backed Shrike, _Lanius collurio_.--Spring: Thanet, May
23d, female. Autumn: Thanet, August 5th, female. Spurn, 24th and
September 1st, young, one each day; 3d and 4th, one each day. Woodchat
Shrike, _L. auriculatus_.--Yarmouth, May, second week, a female, and
several others reported further north on east coast (_Zoologist_, 1886,
pp. 27, 28).

MUSCICAPIDÆ.--Spotted Flycatcher, _Muscicapa grisola_.--Thanet, May
1st, first; October 14th, last (very late). Pied Flycatcher, _M.
atricapilla_.--Spring: Flamborough, May 3d, N.E., great rush with
Redstarts, and forward to 6th, "the largest arrival ever known."
Spurn, same date, great many, "more numerous than ever known before."
Malmo (Sweden), April 29th, two. Autumn: Spurn, August 24th, young;
29th, same. Thanet, 30th, N.E., five or six; again on 31st, and from
September 1st to 29th. Cley, September 8th.

HIRUNDINIDÆ.--Swallow, _Hirundo rustica_.--Spring: Hanois L.H., March
30th, a flight, and from April 15th to May 10th, daily. Flamborough,
April 8th, N.N.E. (8), 11.30 A.M., first; Great Cotes 14th, Thanet
20th, Orfordness 20th, Yarmouth 17th, Hunstanton 16th, Spurn 17th,
Whitby 19th, Tees L.V. 19th, one from E.S.E. to N.W.; 21st, 8 A.M. to
2 P.M., great many to N.W. from E.S.E., and some Martins, and many at
intervals to May 29th in same direction. Languard L.H., May 30th to
June 5th. Malmo, Sweden, April 22d. Autumn; Tees L.V., September 15th
and 16th, great many to S.W. Spurn, September 2d and 5th, all day in
small numbers to S. Hunstanton, 15th and 16th, hundreds all day to S.,
and throughout September at several stations; were last observed at
Languard L.H. October 18th. Flamborough, 18th, several. Great Cotes,
19th. Leman and Ower L.V., 24th. In November, three at Flamborough on
1st. Hunstanton, 14th, one to S.W. Thanet, 15th, one. Martin, _Chelidon
urbica_.--Spring: Tees L.V., April 21st, first; some, with Swallows
N.W. to E.S.E.; July 7th, 8th, 11th, great many to N.W., and at several
stations in April, May, and June. Autumn: Last at Thanet, November 1st.
Sand-Martin, _Cotile riparia_.--Great Cotes, April 22d. Last at Thanet,
November 1st.

FRINGILLIDÆ.--Goldfinch, _Carduelis elegans_.--Hanois L.H., November
1st, fifty to N.W. Siskin, _Chrysomitris spinus_.--Yarmouth, abundant
in December. Serin Finch, _Serinus hortulanus_.--Yarmouth, June 14th
(_Zoologist_, 1886, p. 28), probably a male. Greenfinch, _Ligurinus
chloris_.--Curiously only one entry in the schedules. Shipwash L.V.,
January 24th, 1886, one died on board. Common Sparrow, _Passer
domesticus_.--First at Shipwash L.V., September 22d, 2.30 P.M., great
flight of Common Sparrows to N.N.W. Kentish Knock L.V., 27th, forty to
W., and on 28th. Newarp L.V., October 8th, noon, thirty. Goodwin East
L.V., October 20th, a few House Sparrows during day, and on November
10th to 13th. Corton L.V., October 1st, 11th, 12th, 15th, 19th, 21st,
22d, and November 11th, large numbers, several on vessel. Tree Sparrow,
_P. montanus_.--Longstone L.H.. October 16th, one. Cockle and Kentish
Knock L.V.'s, October 4th and 30th, at latter in large numbers. Goodwin
and Gull L.V.'s, September 28th, 29th, and October 28th, 30th, great
rush. South Sand Head, October 12th, 7 A.M., some to N.W., and on
December 2d one. Very few, as a rule, came in north of the Humber.
Chaffinch, _Fringilla cœlebs_.--First at Outer Dowsing L.V. September
18th, one. Arrived mainly in two great flights, October 12th to 16th,
and November 10th to 13th, as observed at several stations. Brambling,
_F. montifringilla_.--Spring: Thanet, April 19th, last seen. Autumn:
October 14th to 17th, and a second flight November 11th to 12th,
practically at the same periods as the former.[9] Linnet, _Linota
cannabina_.--Comparatively few notices, and no Twites. Mealy and
Lesser Redpoles, _L. linaria_ and _rufescens_.--Cockle L.V., October
14th, one. Outer Dowsing L.V., 16th, two. Leman and Ower L.V., 18th,
one caught (Mealy Redpoles), flying from E.N.E. to S.W. Spurn, about
November 11th, one Mealy Redpole. Hasbro' L.V., November 23d, one
Redpole caught. Yarmouth, in December, abundant. It is probable all the
notices refer to _L. linaria_.

[Footnote 9: Bramblings are reported as having been more plentiful in
Lincolnshire and Norfolk than has been the case for very many years. In
the Migration Report for 1883, the Hawfinch is recorded at the Inner
Dowsing L.V. on November 2d, and at the same station in the previous
year on October 20th. I have recently ascertained from Mr William King
that he was mistaken in his identification, and that the birds were
Bramblings.]

EMBERIZINÆ.--Yellow Bunting, _Emberiza citrinella_.--Whitby, March
16th, great number during week commencing on the 16th. Snow Bunting,
_Plectrophanes nivalis_.--Spring: Tees L.V., March 1st, flocks. Farn
L.H., 4th, two. Yarmouth, 22d, four, 3 P.M., on north light. Farn L.H.,
April 11th, one. Autumn: Cley, September 26th, one, and at several
stations in October and November; rushes October 16th and 24th, N.E.,
half-gale, and November 18th and 25th.

ALAUDIDÆ.--Sky-Lark, _Alauda arvensis_.--The occurrences are far
too numerous to record separately; in some cases the entries fill
a considerable portion of the schedules. They are noted at thirty
stations on the east coast, sixteen of which are light-vessels. Spring,
1885: Longstone L.H., April 7th, and Cockle L.V., May 6th; some to W.
at intervals during the day. Autumn: First at Cockle L.V. September
7th, and sparingly at other stations during the month to the 28th and
29th, when the numbers greatly increased. A very heavy immigration in
October, and from the 12th to 20th an almost continuous rush night and
day, covering the whole of the east coast; in less numbers in November
to the 20th, when the migration appears to have almost ceased. The
great bulk appear to have arrived in two enormous and almost continuous
flights on October 15th, 16th, 17th, and November 10th and 11th--in
the latter case in less numbers; very sparingly in December and up
to January 25th, 1886. A strong return migration to the Continent is
indicated at the Shipwash L.V. on February 14th and 15th N.E. at night,
also during the day on the 15th from W. to E., and at the Newarp L.V.
March 19th to 21st, likewise to E. At the same station, from January
25th, 1886, to February 14th, Larks passing to the W. Shore-Lark,
_Otocorys alpestris_.--Yarmouth, November 26th, one found dead; several
seen in February. Flamborough, January 4th, 1886, one shot.

STURNIDÆ.--Starling, _Sturnus vulgaris_.--At twenty-one stations.
Dudgeon L.V., July 10th, three young alighted on vessel, and then to
W.N.W. None are recorded in August and September till the 28th at
Shipwash L.V., some flights; enormous numbers in October, especially
from the 12th to 19th, frequently associated with Larks, and large
numbers of both killed at the light-vessels; proportionately less in
November, with heavy rushes from the 12th to 23d. A very considerable
spring migration indicated at Shipwash L.V. both to the E. and W. from
February 10th to March 21st, 1886.

CORVIDÆ.--Daw, _Corvus monedula_.--Longstone L.H., March 12th, N.,
several to W.; April 3d to W. at dawn. Autumn: At several stations,
generally in company with Rooks. Carrion Crow, _C. corone_.--Tees L.V.,
October 19th, five; 24th, twelve. Dudgeon L.V., October 5th to November
11th, many with Rooks. Tongue L.V., December 11th, one on deck; great
numbers of "Black Crows" are recorded at various stations, which may
refer either to this or the Rook. Hooded Crow, _C. cornix_.--Spring,
1885: Outer Dowsing L.V., March 1st, large flights from W.N.W. to
E.S.E. 10 A.M. Hunstanton, April 7th, many near lighthouse. Thanet,
19th, last. Autumn: First at Hasbro' L.V. October 2d, small flocks all
day S.E. to N.W. Great numbers in October at various stations, chiefly
between the Humber and Thames, and an almost continuous rush between
15th and 17th. A very considerable immigration in November, specially
from 9th to 12th. Rook, _C. frugilegus_.--Longstone L.H., March 11th
and 14th, 1885, many to E.; April 4th, 15th, 17th, and 20th, several
to W. Cockle L.V., May 2d, continuous flocks during day to N.W., S.W.,
and N. Northrepps, March 22d and 23d, 1886, Rooks and Crows to E.S.E.
Autumn: Immense numbers at various stations in October and November,
with continuous rushes corresponding with those of the Grey Crow.[10]
Raven, _C. corax_.--Outer Dowsing L.V., March 6th, 3 A.M., two ravens,
one caught. Malmo, Sweden, February 7th, one passing overhead N.E. to
S.W.--exactly the same line as observed for nine successive years.

[Footnote 10: Mr J. H. Gurney, Sen., writes:--"Lord Lilford sends me
word that on 20th of March 1886, Mr G. Hunt saw an extraordinary flight
of Rooks at Somerton, which he observed from 10.30 A.M. till 6 P.M.,
when he left, but the flight was still going on. He wrote to Lord
Lilford:--'I observed them flying just above the sandhills, going due
south, and as far as the eye could see both before and behind there
was nothing but Rooks. There would never for one moment of the day be
less than a thousand in sight at one time; they kept in a thin wavering
line. The coast line here runs due north and south.'" Mr J. H. Gurney,
Jun., writes:--"I saw the same Rooks and Grey Crows on the same day in
much smaller numbers as were seen at Somerton (Norfolk coast), which is
fifteen miles further south. I again saw them on the 21st, 22d, 25th,
26th, 29th, but none after that date. Mr Hunt says they were all Rooks,
but with me Grey Crows preponderated; direction to S.E." In connection
with this read Mr Gätke's notes of migration as observed at Heligoland
and Hanover between March 19th and 25th, 1886, on the last page of his
journal.]

CYPSELIDÆ.--Swift, _Cypselus apus_.--Spurn, April 20th, eight on
window-sill of tower; 22d, several; June 29th, 11 A.M., fifty round
lantern. At Yarmouth May 7th, and Thanet and Hunstanton on 8th, Malmo
10th. Autumn: Many to S. along coast first week in September. Wryneck,
_Jynx torquilla_.--Thanet, April 19th, 25th; May 10th, 18th; June 14th,
three distinct arrivals. Farn L.H., May 15th, one picked up dead.
Common Roller, _Coracias garrulus_.--Felthorpe, near Norwich, October
24th, adult female. Cuckoo, _Cuculus canorus_.--Whitby, April 8th;
Hanois L.H., Guernsey, 10th, two; Flambro' 17th, Spurn 18th, Farn L.H.
29th. Malmo May 13th, Tongue L.V. 19th, 10.30 P.M., one struck and
killed. Autumn: Hunstanton L.H., July 16th, 2 A.M., N.W., one killed.
Roker, August 6th, one young. Spurn, 7th, midnight O.M., one killed;
17th, two young on sandhills. Thanet, 8th, and September 3d and 4th.
Farn L.H., August 9th, 6 P.M.

STRIGES.--Barn Owl, _Strix flammea_.--Tongue L.V., October 20th, 8
A.M., "White Owl" to W. Tees L.V., December 2d, W.S.W., "one Barn
Owl." Long-Eared Owl, _Asio otus_.--Longstone L.H., October 10th, 2
P.M., N.N.E., fresh gale, one ("with wind N. of E., very few migrants
are seen"). Farn L.H., October 10th, 6.30 P.M., "Owl" round lantern.
Spurn, October 23d, E. and N.E. gale, some, one also shot at Spurn on
August 25th. Short-Eared Owl, _A. accipitrinus_.--Spring: Farn L.H.,
April 22d, one on rocks. Autumn: In two rushes--October 20th to 23d,
November 12th to 14th.

FALCONIDÆ.--Very few notices. Sea-Eagle, _Haliaëtus
albicilla_.--Immature male and female shot in Kent early in November,
and another seen. The Spotted Eagle, _Aquila nævia_, was shot at
Cresswell on the Northumberland coast on October 31st. Kite, _Milvus
ictinus_.--Thanet, April 9th, 3.30 P.M., N.W., one flying to W. During
the last week in September and early in October (the usual period for
the passage of the Falconidæ); a few Peregrines, Kestrels, Merlins, and
Sparrow Hawks were observed on migration at various parts of the east
coast. Northrepps, March 20th, 1886, two Buzzards, with Rooks to E.S.E.

PELECANIDÆ.--Cormorant, _Phalacrocorax carbo_.--Spring: Tees L.V.,
March 1st to 10th, many to north. Whitby L.H., 11th, to north;
September 17th, old and young, to S. Leman and Ower L.V., October 4th,
forty to fifty, fishing for herring. Gannet, _Sula bassana_.--Farn
L.H., August 22d, 26th, 27th, hundreds fishing off island. Heron,
_Ardea cinerea_.--Coquet L.H., more Herons seen in September to October
12th than had been seen for many years. Outer Dowsing L.V., October 2d,
one from E. to W.N.W. Tees L.V., February 28th, two, E. to W. White
Stork, _Ciconia alba_.--Malmo, April 19th, flight, eighteen or twenty,
to N.E. Spoonbill, _Platalea leucorodia_.--Yarmouth, June 4th, one shot
at Breydon Water.

ANATIDÆ.--Wild Geese.--Whitby L.H.,May 23d, nine dark-coloured Geese to
S.; July 1st, twelve to N.; 12th, five to N. Autumn: Cley, September
7th, nineteen in flock. Llyn Wells L.V., 20th, twelve Geese, from E. by
E. Languard L.H., October 6th, flock, low to S.W. South Sand Head and
East Side L.V.'s (Goodwins), December 6th and 7th, great numbers, too
many to number. Unusually large numbers of Geese seen in North-East
Lincolnshire from the first week in October to the end of the year.
Swans.--Remarkably scarce. Five were seen on September 27th flying
from S. to N. above the Town's Moor at Newcastle, and at Corton L.V.
November 29th, 11 A.M., two to W. Ducks, Common Sheldrake, _Tadorna
cornuta_.--Tees L.V., January 1st, 1885, fifty-four and one Coot.
Farn L.H., June 20th, two broods off. Garganey Teal, _Querquedula
circia_.--April 3d, one, a male, shot at Breydon, Yarmouth. King
Eider, _Somateria spectabilis_.--Longstone L.H., April 23d, several
times seen, was shot on the 25th. Immense numbers of various Ducks
are reported at sea during the autumn and winter, flying in various
directions. The Pochard, _Fuligula ferina_, has been unusually
plentiful both in Lincolnshire and Norfolk.

COLUMBIDÆ.--Ringdove, _Columba palumbus_.--Tetney, Lincolnshire coast,
October 23d, first flight of Wood Pigeons. Outer Dowsing L.V., November
12th, "seven pigeons" W. to E. Roker, near Sunderland, December 12th,
flocks arriving all day from the E. to the woods two miles inland. Mr
H. F. Tomalin reports from Northampton, "a great rush of Wood Pigeons
crossed this part of the country on October 16th; they were passing
continuously, in companies of four to five hundred, in a south-westerly
direction." The Stockdove, _C. œnas_, is reported as exceedingly
abundant in Norfolk during the winter of 1885-1886. Turtle Dove,
_Turtur communis_.--Thanet, May 13th, first.

RALLIDÆ.--Water-Rail, _Rallus aquaticus_.--Farn L.H., October 15th,
one; 31st, E.S.E. (4), one. Leman and Ower L.V., 19th, 11 A.M., one
killed. Spotted Crake, _Porzana maruetta_.--Spurn, October 23d, one.
Stone Curlew, _Œdicnemus scolopax_.--Spurn, August 22d, one seen on mud
flats.

CHARADRIIDÆ.--Golden Plover, _Charadrius pluvialis_.--Besides the usual
autumn arrivals there was a distinct immigration in December. Tongue
L.V., December 14th, 5 A.M., one struck rigging and killed. Thanet,
16th, 3.20 P.M., S.W., flocks of thirty to forty from E. Grey Plover,
_Squatarola helvetica_.--Spurn, August 26th, small flock in summer
plumage. Longstone L.H., September 5th, N.W., three killed. Cley, 22d,
W.S.W., calm, flock. Kentish Plover, _Ægialitis cantiana_.--Yarmouth,
May 3d, three at Breydon. Languard L.H., June 30th, 6.30 A.M., two.
Dotterel, _Eudromias morinellus_.--Spring: Great Cotes, May 14th,
seven; 16th, live. Lapwing, _Vanellus vulgaris_.--First at Whitby,
September 12th, large flock, old and young, to S. Yarmouth, October 2d,
S.W., strong, flocks coming in. Orfordness, 8th, rush, and on 11th the
same during night. Whitby, 16th, very large flock. Llyn Wells L.V.,
21st and 22d, rush all day to N., and on November 1st, 2d, 3d. Dudgeon
L.V., November 10th and 11th, great rush. Hasbro' L.V., 11th to 12th,
night, and 22d to 23d, night, great rush to W. and W.N.W. Leman and
Ower L.V., 12th and 15th, flights to N.W. and W.

SCOLOPACIDÆ.--Woodcock, _Scolopax rusticula_.--Spring: Farn L.H., April
11th, 10.30 P.M., one struck, not killed. Autumn: "First flight,"
October 16th, 17th, E. and N.E., cold, rain and stormy, covering the
whole of the coast from Farn to Thanet, "Great flight" on night of 22d
and 23d, and 23d and 24th October, E. and N.E. gale, large numbers
striking the east coast at Longstone L.H.. Coquet L.H., Teesmouth,
Whitby, Flamborough (swarmed). Spurn (seventy-nine shot by one party
morning of 24th). Lincolnshire coast, great numbers. Yarmouth, less.
This flight was composed of the small, dark, reddish Scandinavian bird,
and the same applies also to the later flights on the east coast.
Other arrivals were Farn L.H., October 31st, seven. Longstone L.H.,
November 4th, eleven. Farn L.H., same date, W.N.W. (4), seven. Leman
and Ower L.V., November 13th, one killed. Thanet, November 11th and
12th. Yarmouth, November 20th, many, and a few at various stations to
end of month, and also in December. A flight is recorded during the
last week in January 1886, at Northrepps and Thanet. Double Snipe,
_Gallinago major_.--Longstone L.H., September 15th, one. Common Snipe,
_G. cœlestis_.--Spring: Longstone L.H., April 3d, S.W., two, to E.
Autumn: Yarmouth, September 12th, W., strong, many. Farn L.H., October
31st. Dudgeon L.V., November 11th, rush; and North-East Lincolnshire,
on 24th, very large numbers. Jack-Snipe, _G. gallinula_.--Lincolnshire
coast, September 23d. Farn L.H., October 12th, N.N.E., and again on
31st. Longstone L.H., 17th, and November 11th; and East Lincolnshire,
November 24th, great rush with Common Snipe. Dunlin, _Tringa
alpina_.--Spring: Yarmouth, May 10th, large flocks in summer plumage.
Autumn: Languard L.H., August 1st, very large flock, the first.
Redcar, September 27th, in flocks all day to W. Little Stint, _T.
minuta_.--Cley , September 7th to 10th, several. Yarmouth, 8th, a few.
Temminck's Stint, _T. temmincki_.--Yarmouth, September 8th, one. Pygmy
Curlew, _T. subarquata_.--Roker, August 6th, 3 P.M., W., two. Knot,
_T. canutus_.--Longstone L.H., August 14th, shot in summer plumage.
Spurn, 20th, a few in summer plumage. Yarmouth, September 6th, large
flight. Redcar, 10th, W. half gale, flock; 12th, two flocks, young
birds. Cley, 22d, large flock. Puff, _Machetes pugnax_.--Spring:
Yarmouth, June 4th, four shot in summer plumage. Autumn: Redcar, August
31st, one young Puff. Cley, September 12th, several Peeves seen, one
shot. Lincolnshire coast, October 3d, one Peeve shot. Sanderling,
_Calidris arenaria_.--Spring: Yarmouth, April 6th, many in company
with Ringed Plover. Return, Spurn August 12th. Common Sandpiper,
_Totanus hypoleucus_.--Spurn, August 27th. Cley, September 10th,
many. Green Sandpiper, _T. ochropus_.--Spurn, August 22d to 26th.
Yarmouth, same date, many. Wood Sandpiper, _T. glareola_.--Yarmouth,
August 22d. Common Redshank, _T. calidris_.--Tees L.V., August 2d,
many. Spotted Redshank, _T. fuccus_.--Yarmouth, August 22d, one shot.
Greenshank, _T. canescens_.--Spring: Yarmouth, April 26th, at Breydon.
Autumn: Spurn, August 24th, young female. Bar-tailed Godwit, _Limosa
lapponica_.--Spurn, August 20th, in summer plumage. Yarmouth, September
8th, several Godwits on coast. Cley, September 12th to 25th, a constant
succession. Black-tailed Godwit, _L. ægocephala_.--Cley, September
15th, old bird shot. Whimbrel, _Numenius phœopus_.--Spring: Great
Cotes, May 16th, many. Autumn: Tees L.V., August 2d and 15th. Redcar,
12th, last on September 11th. Yarmouth, August 19th, many. Roker,
near Sunderland, August 31st and September 1st, very high. Longstone
L.H., September 20th, two. Cley, September 23d, last. Curlew, _N.
arquata_.--Spring: Whitby, April 9th, 11.30 P.M., great flock round
light. Autumn: Tees L.V., August 15th. Whitby, September 12th, to
south. Orfordness L.H., October 8th, night, large numbers, one killed.
Dudgeon L.V., October 21st, 3 A.M., about lantern; and November 25th,
ten, S.E. to N.W. Leman and Ower L.V., October 29th, to S.; November
12th, to S.W., rush; 13th, one killed. East Goodwin L.V., November
12th, one killed.

LARIDÆ.--Arctic Tern, _Sterna macrura_.--Longstone L.H. May 15th, first
heard. August 9th, most left breeding haunts. September 2d, a few
about. Little Tern, _S. minuta_.--Spring: Spurn, April 15th, first. May
5th, many. Yarmouth, April 25th and 26th, on Breydon. Languard L.H.,
May 9th, two. Sandwich Tern, _S. cantiaca_.--Farn L.H., April 12th,
first heard. August 9th, "most have left breeding places." September
1st to 30th, great flocks all round islands. Terns.--Redcar, August
12th, all day passing; 13th, less. September 4th, great many common
Terns at sea; 11th, the same. Yarmouth, September 14th, flocks of young
Terns to S. 22d May, at sea, going S.

LARINÆ.--Gulls.--Whitby, February 10th, Herring Gulls first came to
cliffs early morning; July 9th, first young on wing; August 29th,
young and old left for sea. Farn L.H., April 12th, Lesser Black-Backed
Gulls first returned to nesting quarters. Little Gull, _Larus
minutus_.--Redcar, September 9th, one young shot. Flamborough, October
3d, three shot. Languard L.H., September 3d, two "Cream-Coloured
Gulls," the first seen here.

STERCORARIINÆ.--Skuas.--Farn L.H., August 11th, several chasing
Terns. September 10th, two Buffon's Skua. Redcar, August 13th, one
Richardson's Skua; 31st, two or three; September 7th and 10th, very
plentiful at sea. Longstone L.H., September 2d, many Skua along shore.
Cley, 25th, some Skua seen. Llyn Wells L.V., October 10th, 7 A.M. to
9.30 P.M., flock of 130 "Boatswain Skua;" 13th, flocks of Gulls and
Skua. February 8th, 1886, great numbers of Skua Gulls.

PROCELLARIIDÆ.--Storm Petrel, _Procellaria pelagica_.--Languard L.H.,
October 25th, 2.15 A.M., one caught. Farn L.H., October 31st, S.S.E.,
one struck, not killed; November 10th, S., one at daylight on gallery.
Kentish Knock L.V., November 11th, night, several. South Sand Head
L.V., 11th, two on board. Hasbro' L.V., 12th, twenty all night, four
killed. Coquet L.H., November 14th, N.W. (six), one caught on lantern.
Shearwater.--Longstone L.H., September 2d, one, all black, seen. Fulmar
Petrel, _Fulmarus glacialis_.--Yarmouth, October 31st, caught at sea.
Redcar, three shot early in November.

ALCIDÆ.--Common Guillemot, _Lomvia troile_.--Flambro', February 5th,
1885, great number off breeding quarters. Longstone L.H., March 7th,
many on the rocks, "are seven days earlier than in 1884." Farn L.H.,
February 25th, "thousands flying near nesting haunts." April 12th,
"have taken to rocks." November 28th several Black Guillemot off
island. Little Auk, _Mergulus alle_.--Longstone, October 14th, two.
Puffin, _Fratercula arctica_.--Farn L.H., April 12th, returned to
nesting quarters. Longstone, 14th, first seen, "four days earlier than
last year."

COLYMBIDÆ.--Farn L.H., September 18th, two Great Northern Divers to
N. December 13th, several Red-Throated Divers and two Great Northern
Divers off island. Podicipitidæ, Farn L.H., September 15th, Red-Necked
Grebe seen off island.


General Notes.

With reference to the rush of birds on October 16th and 17th, Mr Thomas
O. Hall of the Longstone L.H. writes:--"October 16th. Starlings and
Redwings commenced to come at 1.30 A.M., and continued to daylight;
after that they continued to come all day, but not in large numbers.
One Tree Sparrow. Wind easterly. October 17th. An enormous rush
of Redwing and Starling; not many of the other kinds, only a few
Blackbirds and Larks. One Woodcock was injured against the lantern, one
Jacksnipe killed, also one Brambling. One female Redstart seen. Several
Woodcock were shot on the adjacent islands by a boat from shore, so
that there was a large flight. The rush of birds was continuous from
1.45 A.M. to 5.30 A.M. The greater part of the Starlings caught were
young birds. There were also some Knot flying round the lantern, but
none struck. The wind was east, with drizzling rain." Again, with
regard to the November rush which was continuous on the 10th and
11th:--"November 8th. A few Redwings and Larks heard after dark, and
one Fieldfare on the gallery at midnight. Wind S. to S.W., moderate.
9th. A few Fieldfare heard through the morning, and two Skylarks seen
at 10.30 A.M. Several Fieldfare and Knot flying round from 6 P.M. till
midnight; one Skylark and one Fieldfare caught. Wind from S.W. to
S.S.E., and at midnight S.S.E. 10th. Fieldfares flying more plentifully
than in fore part of the night, but not striking. No other birds seen.
The flight of Fieldfares continued all day, one flock of fifty and
another of two hundred passed in afternoon, also five Blackbirds and
one Corby Crow in the afternoon. The Fieldfare continued up to 10.38
P.M., when the weather became clearer. One of the large Snipe struck
S.E. side of lantern at 9.45 P.M., and was almost smashed to pieces;
one Dunlin also killed; wind S. by E. to S.E. by S. 11th. Fieldfares,
Redwings, and Blackbirds coming all day and all through the night,
also Skylarks. One Jacksnipe killed. Wind from S. round by E. to
N.E., light, with passing showers of drizzle. 12th. The same birds as
yesterday still coming all day, and continuing up to 11 P.M.; wind from
S.W. to W. by N., moderate. At 1 P.M. one Snow Bunting and a Brambling."

Farn L.H.--Mr Thomas H. Cutting:--January 1st, 1886. "Very large flocks
of Golden Plover to and from land, a good many Mallard and several
Snipe on island; westerly gales, hail and snow, with severe frosts.
I was shown a bird picked up on the main shore about three weeks
previously, which I identified as a Fulmar Petrel. I remember one being
captured about nine years ago."

Coquet Island L.H.--Mr William Evans:--"October 17th. Hundreds of
Blackbirds, Thrushes, Starlings, Larks, three Woodcock, one Snipe
flying round lantern; one Woodcock killed, and one hundred Blackbirds,
Thrushes, Starlings, and Larks."

Dudgeon L.V.--Mr J. F. Warder:--"Seagulls and Puffins are very thin at
the Dudgeon Station. Skua Gulls are seldom seen here summer or winter."

Leman and Ower L.V.--Mr John Bowen (Mate):--"November 13th. Large
numbers of birds at midnight round the ship and lantern. West (3),
O. M. One Curlew, one Woodcock, one Blackbird, three Starlings, four
Thrushes, fourteen Redwings, twelve Larks, and one Finch killed; the
rest went away at daylight to N.W.

Hasbro' L.V.--Mr B. V. Darnell and J. Nicholas:--"June 7th, 4 P.M.,
S.S.E. (2), O. M., one Deaths-head Moth caught alive; several small
White Moths and Black Flies rested."

Languard Point L.H.--Mr Owen Boyle:--"July 4th, at 9.35 P.M., millions
of very small brown-coloured Flies pitched on lantern glass, and to
keep the glass clear they had to be washed off. They sting like a
mosquito. Wind S. (1), B. C. M."

Hanois L.H., Guernsey.--Mr Charles Williams:--"April 10th, 1885,
Cuckoo, two seen on the island, and several Swallows, Whitethroats,
and Blue Titmouse, Yellow Wagtails, Yellow Buntings, and Wheatears.
The west end of the island was all alive with birds of passage.
The morning fine; wind N., light." "September 13th. S.E., cloudy.
Silver-gamma Moth all the evening flying about lantern." "September
17th. N.E. (4), O. R. Golden-crested Wrens, Redstarts, Wheatears,
Wagtails, Whitethroats, Blackcaps, and Swallows after midnight; a great
many killed, and fell into the water." "22d. Winged Ants flying past
lighthouses, some settled. S.E., B. C. V., 2 P.M."

In the great rush, October 15th, 16th, E.N.E. (4 to 5), O. M., the
species actually shown by the schedules as on migration over the North
Sea, were Redwing, Starling, Tree-sparrow, Blackbird, Lark, Thrush,
Fieldfare, Water-rail, Hawk, Redbreast, Woodcock, Goldcrest, Snipe,
Gray Crow, Snow-Bunting, Ring-Ousel, Chaffinch, Carrion Crow, Wheatear,
Rook, Linnet, Hedge-Sparrow, Common Sparrow, Brambling, Short-eared
Owl, Knot, Wild Geese, and Jacksnipe; and on November 10th, 11th, S.
by E. to N.E., drizzly. Missel Thrush, Blackbird, Grey Crow, Thrush,
Redwing, Snipe, Dunlin, Fieldfare, Stormy Petrel, Lark, Lapwing,
Goldcrest, Starling, Curlew, Stonechat, Rook, Daw, Ducks, Sparrow,
Redbreast, Titmice, Short-eared Owl, Tree Pipit, Snow-bunting, and
Brambling, with doubtless many others not distinguished at the time.

From Malmo, Sweden.--Mr Frank E. Newton sends a cutting from a Gotland
newspaper, of which the following is a translation:--"A curious
circumstance happened at the F[)a]rö Lighthouse on the 20th October.
About 8.30 in the evening a sharp report was heard by the man on watch.
He immediately went up to the lantern to ascertain the cause, when he
found two of the panes of glass broken into small pieces, as well as
three "Alfoglar" (Long-Tailed Ducks, _Harelda glacialis_) lying dead
inside. There were also three lamp glasses broken, and a third pane of
glass cracked in many places. On the ground below lay nine more birds
of the same sort. The Ducks had come from a northerly direction. The
flight must have been at a remarkable speed, as the quarter-inch thick
glass was smashed into many small pieces."

Schedules have been sent in since the writing of the report from Inner
Farn L.H.--Mr Thomas H. Cutting--ranging from February 11th to March
30th, 1886, and recording a large migration of Skylarks during the
forenoon on February 19th to the W.; also the movements of Blackbirds,
Thrushes, Common Wrens, Lapwing, Snipe, Starlings, Golden Plover,
Daws, and "Black Crows." A pair of Wheatears on February 22d, at 5
P.M., and again a pair on March 25th. A small flock of Snow-Bunting on
March 13th, and three Fieldfare on the .30th.

Galloper L.V.--Mr P. Frost:--From January 21st to April 12th, 1886,
is specially interesting as recording the enormous migration of Larks
and Starlings, and in less numbers of Chaffinches, Sparrows, Linnets,
and Plover. On the nights of January 21st to 23d, two hundred and
twenty-six were killed. Unfortunately Mr Frost fails to state the
directions of flights, but, judging from the entries in the schedules
sent in by other light-vessels on the south-east coast, they refer to
birds on passage both to the Continent and our own shores.

Newarp L.V.--Messrs C. Campbell and W. Rees:--From October 21st to
March 21st, 1886, up to February 14th. Crows, Starlings, Larks,
Chaffinches, Blackbirds, Thrushes, Fieldfares, Bramblings, and Linnets
in greater or less numbers to the W., ceasing on December 11th, and
again recommencing on January 23d to February 14th, and then from March
5th to 21st, Starlings, Larks, and Crows passing to the E.

Swin Middle L.V.--Messrs Pender and J. Barrett:--From January 21st to
April 3d, 1886; between January 21st to February 15th. Immense flights
of Larks, generally during the night, and large numbers killed; also
Starlings, Sparrows, and some Chaffinches. On January 24th, five
flocks of small birds travelling from N.W. to S.E. On the night of
February 14th to 15th, Larks still in great numbers, ninety on deck,
and a great many falling into the water, "for two hours the Larks were
like a shower of snow." March 28th and 29th, and April 1st, 2d, 3d,
Chaffinches at intervals during the morning three or four together,
all were male birds, only one female seen. "Ducks" (probably Scoters)
"can be seen from this vessel eight or nine months in the year, but on
February 10th, 11th, 12th, we had calms and fogs, and the Ducks sat on
the water, covering about a mile, the water being black with them."

Lord Clifton writes:--"About twenty Swallows were picked up dead after
the northerly gales and rain of October 13th and 14th. Seven were
found huddled together alive in a duck's nesting-box in a stable, and
one was found dead in a slipper in a bedroom, so desperate were the
efforts of the poor birds to find warmth and shelter. House Martins
were similarly overtaken." "Golden Oriole."--"On June 9th a bricklayer
thought he saw one, and on the 23d a woodcutter said he both saw one
and heard it whistle; our people about here are familiar with the
general appearance of the bird from its having bred in this park in
1874 and 1875."


General Remarks.

A special point of interest in the report for the East Coast of England
was the large arrival of Pied Flycatchers at Spurn and Flamborough in
the first week in May 1885, with a north-east wind. This immigration
extended northward as far as the Pentland Skerries (see Report from
the East Coast of Scotland). At Flamborough the Flycatchers were
accompanied by male Redstarts.

There was an enormous arrival of Redwings, commencing at the Farn
Islands on September 15th, and continued throughout October and
November to the first week in December, and covering the whole east
coast of England. There was also an immense immigration of Fieldfares,
which was specially observed at the Longstone L.H. from November 8th to
11 P.M. on the 12th.

Scarcely second to these in importance was the immense flight of
Bramblings, the bulk of which arrived in two great rushes between
October 14th and 17th and on November 11th and 12th; this species being
reported as more plentiful in the eastern counties than ever previously
recorded.

The main body of Woodcocks arrived in two great rushes, the "first
flight" on the night of October 16th to 17th, covering the east coast
from the Farn Islands to Thanet, and the "great flight" on October 22d
to 23d and 23d to 24th between the same islands and Yarmouth. After
this. Woodcocks kept dropping in at intervals up to the end of January
1886.

It has been remarked in previous reports that the migration of a
species extends over many weeks, and in some cases is extended for
months. Yet it is observable that, at least on the east coast of
England, year by year, the bulk or main body of the birds which strike
the coast come in two enormous and almost continuous rushes during
the second and third weeks in October and the corresponding weeks in
November. Continued observation also proves that the earlier arrivals,
as a rule, refer to the young of the year, and the later to old birds,
but with many exceptions.

Birds also continue persistently, year by year, to follow the same
lines of flight both in the spring and autumn, and at least nine-tenths
of the arrivals at the latter season come directly from the east or
from points south of east, moving to the west and north-west. In
the spring, when leaving the east coast, they travel in the reverse
direction, but still following the old lines. The occurrences of
migrants coming from points north of east is quite exceptional.

The fact of a double migration or passage of birds of the same species
across the North Sea in the spring and autumn, both to the E. and S.E.
and W. and N.W., is very clearly established (see General Remarks,
1884 Report, East Coast of England, pp. 69 and 70). This phenomenon
is regularly recorded on the whole of the east coast, but specially
observable at those light-vessels which are stationed in the south-east
district included in this report; at the same time, it is invariably
persistent and regular year by year.

An examination of the reports, seven in number, already issued by the
Committee, will show the extreme regularity and precision in time
during which the migration of each species is carried on. This applies
both to the vernal and autumnal passage; in the vast majority of cases
the commencement of the migration occurring on the same day, or within
a few days, of a fixed period, so that it would not be difficult to
tabulate in advance with almost certainty the normal movement or
migration of each species.

The arrivals of rare and occasional visitants have been unusually
few; perhaps those of chief interest are the occurrences of the
Arctic Bluethroat and Desert Chat at Spurn, the Black-Bellied Dipper
in Lincolnshire, the Woodchat Shrike, Serin Finch, and Spoonbill in
Norfolk, and the Spotted Eagle in Northumberland.

In the spring the earliest occurrence of our summer visitants is as
frequently recorded at the northern as at the southern stations;
instance the arrival in 1885 of the Swallow at Spurn on April 8th; the
Swift, several, on April 20th; and the Cuckoo at Whitby on April 8th;
and in 1886 the arrival of Wheatears at the Farn Islands on February 2
2d. The line of migration of the latter, as yearly observed at the Tees
L.V., is from S.E. to N.W.

_Addenda to "General Notes," East Coast of England._

Leman and Ower L.V.--Mr T. Artis:--March 19th to 28th, 1886. On March
19th and 25th "Black Crows" N.W. to S.E.; and between March 19th to
28th, Skylarks, Starlings, Chaffinches, and others to W. March 28th, at
9 P.M., S.S.E., fog. One Fieldfare, three Starlings, three Chaffinches,
one Woodcock, and three Bramblings killed. Mr Artis also remarks,
under date of April 13th, 1886, 5 P.M. and 7 P.M.:--"I have to inform
you that this afternoon, being a calm at the time, I saw close to my
vessel, about three ship's length off, a very large creature which I
believe was some sort of a whale. I never saw such a fish near the
Leman and Ower banks (18 fathoms) before. It appeared to be larger than
the ship, and came from the N.W., going S.E., and at 7 P.M. he was
surrounded by spring herrings--some thousands--leaping out of the water
from three to four feet. It was a beautiful sight."

There is a very interesting schedule, which is carried forward to the
next report (1886), from the Longstone L.H., Mr Thomas O. Hall. A
Woodcock was flushed on the 3d of April on the rock, which flew E. On
April 7th, at 9.30 A.M., two flocks of Hooded Crows passed to mainland,
wind W., strong; and on the 13th a small flock of Books passed to
mainland at 7.30 A.M., wind S.E. and E. There was a great flight of
Fieldfares, Redstarts, and Wheatears, and other kinds, round the
lantern between 12 and 1 A.M. on the 28th April. As soon as the wind
shifted to the N.E. all the birds left.




HELIGOLAND.


_Ornithological Almanac for 1885._[11]

[Footnote 11: Contributed by Mr Gätke.]


=January.=

1st and 2d.--

3d.--_Fringilla chloris_, very many. _Alauda arvensis_ and _Turdus
pilaris_, numerous.

4th to 8th.--Guillemots on hatching ridges in rocks by thousands.

9th and 10th.--

11th, evening, N.E.--Extensive migration during the night: _Numenius_,
_Char. auratus_, _Tringa_.

12th, N.E., light wind, 1 deg. frost, a little snow.--_Fring.
chloris_, very many; _cannabina_ and _montium_, fewer; _Turdus
pilaris_, _iliacus_, _merula_, and _viscivorus_, numerous, the latter
individually. _Anth. pratensis_, pretty many; _Num. arquata_ and _Char.
auratus_, all numerous, migrating overhead.

13th, S.E., fine.--_Fring. chloris_, again very many, twenty at one
shot; _cannabina_ and _montium_, also very many; _Turdus pilaris_ and
_Alauda arvensis_, also very many; _Sturnus_, fifty to sixty.

14th, N.E., heavy, thick, overcast.--Nothing.

Up to 27th, frost 3-5 deg., fine weather.--During the whole time only
stray birds: _Sturnus merula_, _Al. arvensis_, _Emb. miliaria_.

28th, 29th, 30th, S.W., overcast, mild.--_Fr. chloris_, very many.
_Merula_, _pilaris_, _Sturnus_, _Al. arvensis_, many passing on.


=February.=

1st and 2d.--Nothing.

3d.--_Al. arvensis_, extraordinary many. _Fr. chloris_ and _cannabina_,
also many. _T. merula_, _musicus_, _iliacus_, also pretty many. _Char.
auratus_, _Num. arquata_, many passing on.

4th, southerly.--All the above, but considerably fewer. _Corv.
frugilegus_, a swarm of at least one hundred.

Till 9th westerly wind, often fog.--Nothing. 9th, Guillemots in rocks.

10th, 11th, 12th, S.E. and S.--Nothing. Stray _merula_. Many _Fr.
chloris_.

13th to 17th, S.W., fog.--_Turd. viscivorus_, ten or twelve on 17th.
_C. frugilegus_, a great flight.

Up to 23d.--Nothing passing.

24th, S.S.W., still, fine weather.--_Mot. lugubris_, one [male]. _Sax.
rubicola_, several [male]. _Anth. rupestris_ and _pratensis_. _Alauda
arvensis_, few. _Arborea_, a couple.

25th, S.W., clear, fine; in evening south.--_Corvus monedula_, a
tolerably great flight. _Turd. merula_ and _iliacus_, pretty many.
_Viscivorus_, ten to fifteen. _Sax. rubicola_, [male]. _Anth.
pratensis_ and _rupestris_, pretty many. _Al. arvensis_, a great many.
_Arborea_, a few. _Fring. chloris_ and _cannabina_, numerous. _Scol.
rusticula_, one.

26th, S.W., early fog; P.M. clear, fine.--_Corv. frugilegus_, ten
thousands. _Cornix_, few. _Sturnus_, many. _Merula_, few. _Alauda_
passing on overhead. _S. rubicola_, several _Fr. chloris_, _cannabina_,
_cœlebs_, many, particularly the first. _F. domesticus_, a great flight
passing high overhead eastward. _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_,
many. _Mot. lugubris_, a fine [male]. _Char. auratus_, _vanellus_, and
_hiaticula_. _Fr. alpina_ and. _Num. arquata_ all migrating in great
numbers.

27th, S., S.S.E. forenoon, fog; P.M. clear, fine.--All the above, but
less in number. _Mot. lugubris_, fine [male].

28th, S.W., still, dense fog.--_Corv. frugilegus_, flights overhead
passing. _Sax. rubicola_, two in the garden. _Mot. lugubris_, fine old
[male]. _Emb. schœniclus_, a few. _Anser cinereus_, seventeen passing
low overhead.


=March.=

1st, early, 8 to 9, fog, still; later, N., light, clear; P.M., N.W.,
fresh.--_Merula_, early a couple hundreds.

2d.--_F. peregrinus_, one old bird. _Accentor_, several in the garden.

3d, S.S.W. to S.E.--_F. tinnunculus_. _Corv. frugilegus_, many.
_Cornix_, few. _Alauda arvensis_, _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_,
few. _Fr. cannabina_, many. _Chloris_, fewer. _Char. vanellus_, ten to
fifteen. _Auratus_, a couple.

4th.--Almost nothing: A few _Al. arvensis_ and _alpestris_. _Emb.
schœniclus_ and _nivalis_.

5th, N.W., light, overcast.--_F. æsalon_, one old 6. _Corv.
frugilegus_ and _Sturnus_, not many. _Merula_, several. _Al.
arvensis_, very many, numerous flights overload passing. _Mot.
lugubris_, a few females and young male. _Emb. schœniclus_, several.
_Char. vanellus_, thousands. _Auratus_, hundreds. _Hiaticula_, twenty
to fifty. _Num. arquata_ and _Fring. alpina_, many. _Scol. rusticula_,
one.

6th, N.E., fresh, little wet snow.--_Milvus_, one. _Sturnus_, _merula_,
and _scolopax_, several. _Al. arvensis_, several large flights. _Ans.
albifrons_, one, one year old.

7th, N.W. to W., clear, cold 1 deg.--_F. æsalon_, one [male]. _Sturnus_
and _Alauda_, stray birds. _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_, somewhat
more.

8th, W., S.W.; in evening fog.--Nothing. A few _Mot. lugubris_. Few
_Sturnus_. One Woodcock.

9th, N.N.W., windy, cold, now and then fine snow, and clear.--_Corv.
cornix_, little flights. _Mot. lugubris_, a couple. Two Woodcocks.

10th, N.W., fresh, loose scattered clouds, cold.--Nothing.

11th, N.N.W., fresh; P.M., N.E., clear, cold.--_Merula_ and _Sturnus_,
a few.

12th, W.N.W., slight wind, thick, almost fog.--_Merula_, _Anth.
pratensis_ and _rupestris_, a few.

13th, N.W., fresh, misty.--Almost not a bird. A few miserable Pewits.

14th, N.N.W. to N., fresh, cold.--Nothing. A few _Mot. alba_.

15th, N.N.W., windy, cold, overcast; in evening fog till 1.30 A.M.--_T.
merula_, tolerable, ten caught in bush, 8 old [male], 2 [female].
_Sturnus_, flights. _Mot. alba_, singly. _Vanellus_, early, some
flights. Four to five Woodcocks. Several Snipes and Plover.

16th, W., violent, cold, overcast; in evening clear.--_Corv. cornix_,
six to ten. _Sturnus_, till nine in morning; flights of hundreds and
thousands. _Merula_, a few hundred. _Iliacus_, fewer. _Mot. alba_, few.
_Anth. rupestris_, some. _Pratensis_, none. _Al. arvensis_, many. _Fr.
cœlebs_ and _cannabina_, few. _Char. vanellus_ and _auratus_ passing on
overhead. Woodcocks, three shot. _Tr. alpina_, early, great flights.

From two o'clock till daylight at Lighthouse.--_Sturnus vulgaris_,
extraordinary many, 300 to 400 being caught. _Merula_, very many,
_Alauda_, _Char. vanellus_ and _auratus_, also very many. Also ducks.

17th, W., fresh, overcast, cold; P.M. wind heavy.--Nothing.

18th, and 19th, W. and N.W., windy, very cold.--Nothing.

20th, W.S.W., very heavy, thick.--Nothing.

21st, N.W. to N., stormy, hail showers.--Nothing.

22d and 23d, N.E., hail, snow.--Nothing.

24th, E. by N., light, clear; in evening frost.--Nothing.

25th, E. by S., light, overcast.--Nothing.

26th, calm, overcast; in evening clear and cold, S.E., light.

_F. peregrinus_, one. _Corv. cornix_, very many. _T. merula_, less,
nearly all old _Scol. rusticula_, thirty to forty shot. _Ral.
aquaticus_, a couple. _Sax. ænanthe_, some [male]. _Alauda alpestris_,
great flights. _Fr. cœlebs_, _cannabina_, and _chloris_, pretty many.
_Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_, do. _Vanellus_ and _Tr. alpina_
passing on overhead early.

27th, S.S.W. violent, overcast, cold; in evening ten o'clock fog.--_F.
æsalon_ [male]. _Lanius major_, one. _Corv. cornix_, early, a few great
flights, very high, 1000 feet, passing on. _Turdus_, _Fringilla_,
_Anthus_, stray birds. _Sax. ænanthe_, a couple old [male]. _Fr.
montana_, some (the first). _Col. palumbus_, pretty many. _Vanellus_,
early, pretty many. _Scolopax_, twenty to thirty been shot.

28th, N.N.W., slight; early overcast, later clear, fine.--_Corv.
cornix_, single flights. _Sturnus_, some flights. _Merula_, pretty
many, only half of them black. _Musicus_, some. _Alauda_, _Fringilla_,
_Anthus_, few. _Alauda alpestris_, some flights. Woodcocks, 140 to 150
being shot. _Sy. rufa_, two in garden.

29th, northerly, light, clear, early hoar-frost.--_Corv. cornix_, not
many. _Monedula_ and _frugilegus_, pretty numerous. _Sturnus_, small
flights. _Merula_, early, pretty many. _Iliacus_, scattered. _Sy.
rubecula_, a couple. _Regulus flavicapillus_, two. _Mot. alba_, several
small flights and single birds. _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_,
pretty many. _Emb. schœniclus_ and _citrinella_. _F. cœlebs_, all very
single. _Scolopax_, about twenty shot.

30th, E., S.S.E., slight, clear, fine, early, very sharp hoar-frost, in
evening E.N.E., cool.--All the above, but in little numbers.

_T. viscivorus_, daily a few; never coming numerous. _Char. auratus_
and _vanellus_, as _Tot. calidris_ only singly. Ought to have been
_merula_ and _scolopax_, but if hoar-frost turns up early, there is
never much visible migration.

31st, S.E., quite light, clear, strong hoar-frost, during daytime
warm.--Early, nothing, and during daytime almost nothing, in spite of
fine weather. _C. cornix_ and _monedula_, very single small flights.
No _Sturnus_, no _merula_, no Woodcocks shot. _S. titys_, one. _F.
cœlebs_, _cannabina_, _chloris_, as _Anthus_ all very single.

Strange, that in forenoon, after all hoar-frost had disappeared, and
it became quite warm and sunny, not a _merula_ or _scolopax_ arrived,
and no Crows passed, the few flights of the latter passing surprisingly
high, certainly several thousand feet, which is very uncommon, as the
usual normal boundary is 500 to 600 feet. Can this give rise to the
conclusion that other species whose normal route of migration lays
always very high, should under the influence of hoar-frost migrate so
high that they can neither be seen nor heard, which would be in the
case of Crows about 10,000 feet?

In rare cases I have seen Rooks and Daws pass so high, that my
attention being roused by their call, they were only visible in the
shape of very fine dust.

The same also happens that under favourable atmospheric circumstances,
the calls sound down clear from a height to which the sense of sight is
unable to penetrate.


=April.=

1st, westerly, slight sunny; warmer. Highest cirri, N.O.--Only very
little visible migration. The few flights of _Corv. cornix_ and
_monedula_ extraordinary high, 3000 to 4000 feet. _Merula_, not many;
more than half old [female]. _Musicus_ and _iliacus_, some. _Rubecula_,
_Accentor_, _Regulus fl._, _Sax. ænanthe_ and _rubicola_, all only few.
_Mot. alba_, _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_, pretty many. Larks,
few. _Fr. cœlebs_, _montifringilla_, _cannabina_, and _montium_, all
pretty many. _Scolopax rusticula_, a couple. _Anas nigra_ [male], very
many on the sea.

2d, N.N.W., light; early fog, flying clouds, W.S.W.; P.M. North
overcast, cold.--Nothing during daytime. Early, from three to four
o'clock, Woodcocks and Thrushes, Five to seven fog; in evening cold,
clouds very slow from North. _Sy. titys_, a couple. _Merula_, very few.

3d, N.E., fresh, cold, clear; early, hasty cloud-flocks.--Nothing. _F.
æsalon_ and _tinnunculus_, of each a couple. _Merula_, passing the
whole day singly. _Al. alpestris_, pretty many. _Scolopax_, singly.

4th, N.E., slight, cool, clear; in evening, E. by S., cloudy.--Nothing.
_Merula_, passing singly the whole day. _F. æsalon_ and _tinnunculus_,
a couple. _Al. alpestris_, pretty many, flights of twenty to thirty.
_Scolopax_, forty to fifty being shot.

5th, S.E., fresh, thick, cloudy; hasty clouds, low, loose; cold.--Early
not a bird; during day few Starlings, Thrushes, Hedge Sparrows, and
Shore Larks. Guillemots arrived by thousands in hatching places.

6th, S.E., pretty sharp, later, stiller, clear, not cold.--_F.
peregrinus_, _æsalon_, and _tinnunculus_, pretty many. _Corv. cornix_,
pretty many. _Monedula_, few. _T. merula_, few. _Musicus_, more.
_Pilaris_, some. _Rubecula_ and _accentor_, several._Sax. ænanthe_,
[female], and _Mot. alba_, pretty many. _Al. alpestris_, very many,
passing on. _Fringilla_ and _Anthus_, only few. _Col. palumbus_ and
_Scolopax_, not many.

7th, E., windy, overcast, cool; in evening, E. by N., rain.--_F.
peregrinus_, _æsalon_, and _tinnunculus_, several. _T. musicus_, few;
_torquatus_, a couple. _Anth. pratensis_, many; _rupestris_, few. _Al.
arvensis_, _alpestris_, and _arborea_, small flights. _Emb. miliaria_,
some. _Fr. cœlebs_, many on the move. _Col. palumbus_ and _Scolopax_,
some. _Totanus glareola_, one.

8th, E. by S., fresh, overcast, clouds moving from S.E. and S.S.E.
past; night cold, from 11 to 2 fog; early, at 5 o'clock, again
fog.--_F. æsalon_ and _tinnunculus_, very many, passing on over the
sea. _Mot. alba_ and _Emb. citrinella_, pretty many. _Miliaria_, less;
almost nothing besides.

9th, E. by N., slight, weather good, clouds from S.S.E.; in evening,
east wind, dark; during night rain.--_F. æsalon_ and _tinnunculus_,
several. _C. cornix_ and _monedula_, pretty many early. _Turdus_,
almost none. _Al. arvensis_, pretty many; _alpestris_, very many. _Sy.
trochilus_, two to three. _Rubecula_, many. _Accentor_, tolerable.
_Mot. alba_, many. _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_, fewer. _Emb.
citrinella_, many _schœniclus_, fewer. _Fr. cœlebs_, _montifringilla_,
and _cannabina_, many. _Par. major_, many. _Reg. flavicapillus_
and _Sax. ænanthe_, also pretty many. _Scolopax_, only a few. _Sy.
leucocyanea_, two fine old [male], one of them nearly uniform blue.

10th, easterly, light, thick, fine rain; in evening W. and W. by N.,
light. During the past night, from 2 o'clock, very many _Turdus_ and
_Saxicola_ migrating. During the day extremely many of all the above
species passing over the sea.

_F. peregrinus_, _æsalon_, and _tinnunculus_, many; _haliaëtos_, one.
_Corv. cornix_ and _monedula_, pretty many. _Sturnus_, fewer. _T.
musicus_, many; _merula_, fewer; _pilaris_, very many, great flights.
_Sy. rubecula_, extraordinary many; not a single _Sylvia_ besides.
_Accentor_, pretty many. _Sax. ænanthe_, in astonishing numbers. _Mot.
alba_, _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_, very many. _Al. arvensis_,
very many; _alpestris_, in flights of hundreds. _Emb. citrinella_,
_miliaria_, and _schœniclus_, singly. _F. cœlebs_, _montifringilla_,
and _cannabina_ passing in uncountable numbers the whole day till
evening. _Col. palumbus_, about ten. _Scolopax_, none. _Char. auratus_,
_vanellus_, and _hiaticula_, as _Tringa_ and _Totanus_, very many
migrating.

11th, easterly, light, dull, very fine drizzly rain.--During the past
night, from 2 o'clock, extensive migration of Thrushes, Wheatears, and
all sorts of Longshanks; particularly uncountable numbers of Pewits.
_F. tinnunculus_, several. _Strix otus_, one in the garden. _Turd.
merula_, pretty many, almost all [female]; _musicus_ and _pilaris_,
also many. _Rubecula_, very many; not a warbler. _Accentor_, few.
_Mot. alba_, many; _lugubris_, one. _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_,
many. _Emb. citrinella_ and _miliaria_, many; _schœniclus_, fewer.
_Scol. rusticula_, only a few. _Gallinago_, early, extraordinary many.
Early in the morning Pewits, Plover, and _hiaticula_, extraordinarily
numerous.

12th, S.E., light, dull, overcast.--_F. tinnunculus_, _C. cornix_,
_Mot. alba_, only singly. _Al. alpestris_, pretty many. Altogether
little migration.

13th, N. by E., slight, clear; P.M., wind somewhat fresher, cool.--_F.
æsalon_, _tinnunculus_, and _nisus_, as _C. cornix_, all pretty
many. _Turdus_, stray birds. _Sylvia_ and Wheatears, almost none.
_Sy. titys_, one [male]. _Motacilla_, _Anthus_, and _Accentor_,
only few. _Al. alpestris_, many great flights. _Fringilla_, pretty
many, especially _cannabina_. _Columba_ and _Scolopax_, a few. _Lar.
glacialis_, one young bird in summer plumage shot.

14th, northerly, quite light, clear, air cool; in evening
overcast.--Very slight migration. Several little Falcons, _æsalon_,
now, females and young. _Corv. cornix_ and _monedula_, early some.
_Turdus_, almost none. _Sylvia_, none at all. _Fringilla_, very few;
one _linaria_. _Mot. flava_, some, the first. _Anth. pratensis_ and
_rupestris_, pretty many. _Alauda alpestris_, pretty many. _Char.
auratus_, one fine old bird, in summer plumage. No Pigeons; no
Woodcocks.

15th, S.E., almost calm during night and early morning, very fine
rain, cool.--Very little migration; a few little Falcon; early a few
flights of Crows. _T. torquatus_, _merula_, _musicus_, _pilaris_, all
singly. _Sy. rubecula_, _rufa_, and _Accentor_, only very singly. _Al.
alpestris_, very many. _Fringilla_, singly. _Col. palumbus_, some.
Woodcocks, three shot.

16th, E., early slight; in evening, fresh, clear, wind cool.--Very
little migration, as previous day. _Sylvia trochilus_, some. _Mot.
flava_, several _Anth. arborea_, one. _Hir. rustica_, one. _Fr.
coccothraustes_, a couple.

17th, E. and N.E., very fresh, clear, wind cool--Extremely little
migration. _F. peregrinus_, one fine old bird. Little Falcons and
_F. nisus_, pretty many; _æsalon_, only females and young males.
_T. musicus_, few; _merula_, old [male], but only with half a tail.
_Sy. leucocyanea_, one [male]; _trochilus_ and _rubecula_, a few.
_Accentor_, few. _Fringilla_, very few; _coccothraustes_, one.

18th, E. by N., fresh, clear, a little warmer.--Very little
migration. _Mot. flava_, _Hir. rustica_, _Anth. arborea_, some. _F.
coccothraustes_, one in garden; everything besides very singly. Still
too cold.

19th, E. by S., S.S.E., slight, quite clear, warm.--_F. æsalon_ and
_tinnunculus_, pretty many, all [female]. _Corv. cornix_, extraordinary
many; even late in afternoon passing on overhead till 6 o'clock, which
is the greatest exception, as the normal migration ceases by 2 o'clock
in the afternoon. _T. musicus_, pretty many; _merula_, still pretty
many, females; _pilaris_, many; viscivorus, singly. _Sylvia_, stray
birds. _Regulus_, _Accentor_, ditto. _Saxicola_, tolerable, females.
_Al. arvensis_, some; _alpestris_, pretty many. _Hir. rustica_, a few.
_Cic. alba_, one. _Scolopax_, five to six being shot. _Rallus_, some.
_Numenius_ and _Totanus_, a few.

20th, S.W., little wind, clear, bank to northward, W. and N.W.,
freshing up; in evening, light.--_F. æsalon_ and _tinnunculus_,
females, a few; _Buteo_, one; _Corvus_, stray birds. _T.
musicus_, early, pretty many; _torquatus_ and _merula_, females,
singly. _Sylvia_, almost none; a few _trochilus_ and _rubecula_.
Anth. pratensis, few; _arborea_, a couple. _Fringilla_, few;
two _coccothraustes_; just before evening, a large flight of
_montifringilla_, about 100 to 150. _Al. alpestris_, few small flights.
_Hir. rustica_, ten to twenty. _Col. palumbus_, early many. _Scolopax_,
few. _Char. auratus_, one fine old bird.

21st, W.N.W. and N.W.--During past night extensive migration of all
Longshanks; as small birds, commencing already at 10 P.M. on 20th.

During the day all those of yesterday, but only very singly.

22d, S.W., light, slightly cloudy, the first warm day.--Again little
migration; everything there, but singly. No Bluethroats; no _Sylviæ_,
_curruca_, _phœnicurus_. One _Mot. flava_ and one _Raii_, _Anth.
arborea_, _Hir. rustica_, of each a small party of about fifteen to
twenty. _Al. alpestris_ still up to 100 during the day.

23d, S.W., light, overcast; in night, very fine rain.--_F. æsalon_ and
_tinnunculus_, females, some. _C. cornix_, a small flight. _Sturnus_,
still only few. _Sy. luscinia_, one; _trochilus_, some; _phœnicurus_,
ditto. _Mot. flava_, few. _Raii_, one. _Anth. arborea_, some. _Sax.
ænanthe_, stray birds; _rubetra_, one; altogether very little. A few
small _Totanus_.

24th, W., S., E.S.E., quite light, warm, slightly cloudy.--Early not a
bird; later in day the above, but very singly. Sixty to eighty pilaris.

25th, early, S.S.E.; A.M., S.S.W., fresh, overcast; P.M. and evening,
quite light, S.E., warm.--_Emb. hortulana_, _Jynx torquilla_, and _Up.
epops_, the first ones. _F. æsalon_, _tinnunculus_, and nisus, few
females. _T. musicus_, _torquatus_, and _pilaris_, not many. _Anth.
arborea_, some; _pratensis_, more, but not many. _Sax. rubetra_,
pretty many. _Sy. rubecula_ and _trochilus_, pretty many; no _suecica_
nor _curruca_. _Mot. flava_, tolerable. _Al. alpestris_, few, small
flights. _F. cœlebs_, _montifringilla_, and _cannabina_, scattered.
_Tot. ochropus_, some, _Num. arquata_, still a few flights. _Ard.
cinerea_, a couple.

26th, S.S.W., slight, thick, overcast, but will not rain; in evening,
E.S.E.--_Mus. luctuosa_, a fine old male in garden. _Sy. cinerea_,
_curruca_, _phragmitis_, and _locustella_, the first ones.

_F. æsalon_, _tinnunculus_, and _nisus_, females, scattered. _T.
musicus_ and _torquatus_, pretty many. _Sy. rubecula_ and _trochilus_,
tolerable; _phœnicurus_, less; no _suecica_. _Anth. arborea_, _Sax.
ænanthe_ and _rubetra_., not many. _Mot. flava_, tolerable; _alba_,
still some. _Al. arvensis_, a small flight; _alpestris_, few.
_Fringillæ_, scattered. _Up. epops_, _I. torquilla_, some. _Crex
pratensis_, several. _Scol. gallinula_, some. _Char. auratus_, fine old
birds. _Morinellus_, some.

27th, S.E., fresh, thick, overcast, clouds moving from S.S.W.; all
evening, E. and E. by N.; fog and rain all night.--Early, at 5 o'clock,
many _T. musicus_; at 8 o'clock everything gone. _Hir. urbica_,
_riparia_, _cypselus_, some of each, the first ones. _Trochilus_,
_rubecula_, _cinerea_, _flava_, _rubetra_--_M. luctuosa_, _Fringilla_,
all very single in course of day; no _suecica_.

28th, N.N.W., slight, fog, above sunny.--Nothing. _Caprimulgus_, one,
the first. _Hortulana_, some.

29th, E., slight, early at 5 o'clock fog, later clear.--Almost nothing.
Seasonable birds scattered.

30th, E. by N. and E., fresh, thick, overcast, cold.--Very little.
_Torquatus_ and _musicus_, some. _Pilaris_, several great flights. _Sy.
curruca_, several; other _Sylviæ_, few. _Suecica_, still not yet. _Mot.
flava_, tolerable. _Lugubris_, one. _M. luctuosa_, some _Anth. arborea_
and _Emb. hortulana_, of each about twenty to thirty. _Fringilla
montana_, scattered since middle of month.


=May.=

1st, S.E., very fresh, cloudy, hasty loose clouds, cold; noon, clear,
warm; in evening, fine, damp.--Early, almost nothing. Noon and later,
strong migration. _F. tinnunculus_ and _æsalon_, female. _Turdus_, few.
_Sy. curruca_ and _cinerea_, many. _Trochilus_, few. _Phœnicurus_, fine
old male. _Suecica_, none at all. _M. luctuosa_, pretty many, fine old
males. _Sax. ænanthe_, female; and _rubetra_, many. _Mot. flava_, in
afternoon extremely many. _Anth. arborea_ and _Emb. hortulana_, many.
_Fringilla_, stray birds. _Tot. ochropus_ and _glareola_, several.
_Glottis_, one. No Swallows.

2d, S.E., light, warm, thick fine rain; in evening, E, fresh,
cooler.--_F. æsalon_, _tinnunculus_, and _nisus_, _Buteo_, and
_haliaëtos_; _Strix brachyotus_, pretty many. _Lan. collurio_,
some [male]. _T. torquatus_, extremely many. _Musicus_, also many.
_Pilaris_, very great flights. _Sy. cinerea_, _curruca_, _atricapilla_,
_phœnicurus_, [male], all pretty many. _Trochilus_, only few.
_Sibilatrix_, one. _Suecica_, some males. _M. luctuosa_. _Sax. ænanthe_
and _rubetra_, many. _Mot. flava_, many. _Anth. arborea_, extremely
many; _pratensis_, fewer. _Campestris_, one. _Emb. hortulana_,
extremely many. _Schœniclus_, some. _Fringilla_, but few. _Scol.
gallinago_, few. _Gallinula_, many. _Char. morinellus_, several.
_Auratus_, just ten. _Tot. glottis_, _glareola_, and _ochropus_, great
contingent. _Tr. pugnax_, several. _Cic, alba_, one.

3d, E., violent, rain, cold.--_F. æsalon_ and _tinnunculus_, many.
_Peregrinus_, one. _Haliaëtos_, one. _Strix brachyotus_, some. _Turd,
torquatus_ and _musicus_, tolerable. _Sylviæ_, few. _Anthus_, few.
Campestris, one. _Emb. hortulana_ and _Alauda alpestris_, some.
_Totanus_, _Charadrius_, _Numenius_, singly. Altogether slight
migration, too cold and too windy.

4th, S.E., E., middling, dull, overcast; P.M., sun visible.--_F.
peregrinus_ and _subbuteo_, males; _æsalon_ and _tinnunculus_, few.
_Haliaëtos_, one. _T. torquatus_, early, very many. _Musicus_, fewer.
_Sy. rubecula_, _curruca_, _cinerea_, _atricapilla_, _trochilus_,
all, not many. _Suecica_, some males. _Mot. flava_ and _Anthus_, few.
_Hirundo_ and _I. torquilla_, some. _Sterna cantiaca_, high overhead,
with plenty noise, chasing by couples.

5th, N.W., fresh, thick, cold, in night, N., fog; noon, sunny;
in evening, W., clear.--_F. peregrinus_, _subbuteo_, _æsalon_,
_tinnunculus_, the latter few. _T. torquatus_ and _musicus_, few.
_Pilaris_, more. _Sylviæ_, altogether few. _Rubecula_, still
many during the season. _Curruca_, _cinerea_, _atricapilla_, and
_trochilus_, few. _Nisoria_, some fine males. _Phœnicurus_, still
pretty many. _M. luctuosa_. many old males. _Sax. ænanthe_, still
many. _Rubetra_, very many. _Mot. flava_, pretty many. _Anth. arborea_
and many. _Al. alpestris_, a flight of fifty and one of seven. _Emb.
hortulana_, many. _Fringilla_, few. _Coccothraustes_, one, female. _I.
torquilla_, some. _Cuc. canorus_, a fine male. _Char. morinellus_ and
_auratus_, some. Sy. philomela, one caught at lighthouse, the first
since about fifty years.

6th, W., fresh, cirri, and low light clouds, W., sunny.--_F. æsalon_,
_tinnunculus_, and _nisus_, the latter few. _C. cornix_ and _monedula_,
a flight. _Sylviæ_, _Anthus_, _Motacilla_, all but singly. _Al.
alpestris_, a flight of twenty. _Fringillæ_, scattered.

7th, early, and forenoon calm, sunny; P.M., thick, suddenly fresh, N.W.
rain.--Very slight migration of season suiting species. _Mot. flava_
and _Anth. pratensis_, pretty many; both species very often turn up
with much wind, especially in autumn. _Al. alpestris_, still in flights
of ten to fifteen.

8th, N.W., fresh, cold, early hail.--Nothing. _Num. phæopus_, the first
ones.

9th, S.W., moderate, early rain, hail, thunder, later on
clear.--Nothing.

10th, W., windy; in evening, very violent, thunder, lightning, very
cold.--Nothing.

11th, N.W. and N.N.W., stormy, early rain and hail squalls.--Nothing.

12th, N.W. and N.N.W., somewhat less wind, hail showers in great
intervals.--Nothing.

13th, N.N.W., clouds from N., better, but yet cold.--Nothing. Stray
_torquatus_ and _musicus_; some _Sylviæ_. _Mot. flava_, a couple of
hundred. _A. pratensis_, pretty many.

14th, N. light, warmer, clear.--_F. tinnunculus_ and _nisus_, a few.
_T. torquatus_ and _musicus_, very single. _Sy. phœnicurus_ and
_trochilus_, very singly. _Nisoria_, one. _Mus. luctuosa_, some. _Mot.
flava_ and _Anth. pratensis_, pretty many. _Al. alpestris_, ten to
twenty. _Hir. rustica_, some. _Urbica_, few.

15th, N., light, early light rain showers, cold.--Nothing at all.

16th, S.S.W., fresh, clear; P.M., a rain shower with hail; evening,
clear, light.--A few little Falcons. Early some _torquatus_ and
_musicus_. _Sy. phœnicurus_, half of them female. _Suecica_ and
_curruca_, some. _Cinerea_, many. _Trochilus_, pretty many.
_Phragmitis_, several. _Mus. luctuosa_, pretty many, half female.
_Sax. rubetra_, ditto. _Mot. flava_, many. _Anth. arborea_, and _Emb.
hortulana_, fewer. _Hir. rustica_ and _urbica_. _Ch. morinellus_, some.
Starlings commenced building nest in hatch-box early to-day.

17th, W., fresh, cloudy; P.M., S.W.--Little migration. _Sy.
phœnicurus_, _trochilus_, and _cinerea_, as _Mus. luctuosa_ and _Sax.
rubetra_, some. Swallows, but few.

18th, S.W., slight, light cloudy, fine in evening, easterly light,
warmer.--Very little migration early. _Turdus_, very single.
_Sy. suecica_, a couple. _Phœnicurus_, _trochilus_, _cinerea_,
_atricapilla_, tolerable. _Hortensis_ appears. _Mot. flava_, many.
_Melanocephala_, some. _Sax. ænanthe_, tolerable. _Rubetra_, many.
_Char. squatarola_, a very fine male. _Morinellus_, a few.

_F. tinnunculus_ and nisus, a few shabby females. _Subbuteo_, a fine
male.

19th, S.S.W., slight, light cloudy.--All the above, but altogether only
slight migration.

20th, S.S.W., light, light clouds; P.M. and evening, S.S.E. to S.E.
fresh, cool.--In trifling numbers. _T. musicus_ and _torquatus_, _Sy.
trochilus_, _phœnicurus_, _cinerea_, _hortensis_, _atricapilla_, and
_phragmitis_. _Sax. ænanthe_ and _rubetra_. _Mot. flava_, and some
_melanocephala_; _Anth. pratensis_, and few _arborea_. _Hir. riparia_,
some. _Col. turtur_, two to three. _Char. squatarola_, three. _Tot.
glottis_, one.

21st, S.E., violent, overcast; A.M., stiller, S. rain; in evening,
light.--_T. torquatus_, few. _Sy. cinerea_, _hortensis_, and
_atricapilla_, tolerable. _Nisoria_, two to three. _Mus. luctuosa_,
few males, the most females. _Grisola_, one in the garden. _Sax.
ænanthe_, yet pretty many. Rubetra, many. _Mot. flava_, many females.
_Melanocephala_, some. _Anth. arborea_ and _Emb. hortulana_, few.
_Cypselus apus_, pretty many, passing on overhead. _Riparia_, pretty
many. _Char. morinellus_, ten to fifteen. _Tot. glottis_ and smaller
_Totani_, pretty many.

22d, S.E. and S. fresh, sunny, fine; in evening, violent, rain.--All
the above, but not numerous. Some _Sy. suecica_ and _Sy. hypolais_.

23d, S.W., very violent, rain; P.M., clear, lighter; in evening
cool.--The above, but very singly. _Lan. collurio_, five to six, one
female. _Char. morinellus_, a few females. The females of the latter
known as being finest black, white, and rust-red coloured.

24th, westerly, slight, early thunderstorm, rain.--Almost nothing.
Thunderstorm, as fog and hoar-frost, put a stop on almost all migration.

25th, W. and N.W., light, rain, during day fine, but thunderstorm
clouds.--Everything, but quite scattered. A few _Sylviæ_, etc. _Col.
turtur_, a couple.

26th, southerly, still; in night, rain, early clear; P.M., violent,
highest cirri, and lower light clouds from N.W.; in evening, cloudy
from S.W.--Early, much singing of Warblers, _trochilus_, _curruca_,
_cinerea_, etc., in the gardens. In course of the day, but only
scattered. _Sylviæ_ and _Mus. luctuosa_, and a couple of _grisola_.
During the night at about 2 and later, temporary fog.

27th, light, W. and S.W., cirri N.W.; early light fog, later thick;
evening, clear.--_Curruca_, Redstarts, and Warblers as Chats, all
tolerable, but not many; also _Mus. luctuosa_, young male and female.
_Mot. flava_, _Anth. arborea_, and _Emb. hortulana_, pretty many. _Col.
turtur_ and _Crex pratensis_, some.

28th, southerly, light, fine, clear, highest little clouds, and cirri
from W. and W. by N., warm; P.M. and in evening S.S.E., clouds from
W.--Early, very many _curruca_, _cinerea_, _hortensis_. _atricapilla_,
and _trochilus_ singing by hundreds in the gardens. Later on _Lanius
major_, one male. _Mus. grisola_, many. _Luctuosa_, the same, the
latter mostly females. _Mot. flava_, few females. _Anth. arborea_,
many. _Emb. hortulana_, but single. _Cypselus_, pretty many. _Hir.
rustica_ and _urbica_, the same. _Caprimulgus_, a couple. _Col.
turtur_, strikingly many, ten to fifteen being shot.

29th, S.S.E. and S., light, clouds from W.; noon, wind suddenly
N.W., violent, clear, thunderstorm clouds from S. by W.--All those
as yesterday, but much fewer. _Falco subbuteo_, male. _Tinnunculus_,
female. 31. _grisola_, many. _Luctuosa_, fewer, most female. Hir.
rustica, urbica, and riparia, as _Cypselus_, pretty many. _Cuc.
canorus_, one. _Col. turtur_, very many; these latter do not mind
violent wind.

30th, S.W. fresh, clear, cirri W. and W. by N.--Early, nothing at all.
The whole day nothing.

31st, S.W., violent, thick low speedy rain clouds; in evening, N.W.,
cold.--Of course not a single bird.


=June.=

1st and 2d, N.W., fresh, very cold.--Nothing.

3d and 4th, S.S.W., lighter; in evening, 4° calm, very warm,
clear.--Few. _Sy. hypolais_, one. _Mus. grisola_, pretty many. _Col.
turtur_, very many, up to forty.

5th, S.S.W., light, clear, hot, every day outermost cirri, N.W., 26°
C.--Seen, a great Grey Shrike, uniform coloured ash grey, band through
eye scarcely marked. _Mus. grisola_, _Hir. rustica_ and _riparia_,
scattered. _Col. turtur_, many. _Pyrrhula rosea?_ yellowish-green,
white band on wings, larger than _P. erythrinus_, not obtained.

6th, S.S.W., clear, fine; P.M., N. and N. by E., overcast; in evening,
cool.--_Mus. grisola_, singly; _Hirundo_, some. _Col. turtur_, several.

7th, E. by N. slight, early overcast; P.M., thunderstorm, rain, W.; in
night fog.--Nothing. _Sy. cinerea_ and _Mus. grisola_, quite few.

8th, fog, calm.--Nothing.

9th and 10th, N.W., violent, cold.--Nothing.

11th, N., less wind, a little warmer.--Nothing.

12th, W. slight, overcast; later on, clear from north. Cirri from N.
and N. by E.--_Hir. rustica_, some. _Ch. auratus_, one in fine summer
plumage.

13th, early, quite calm, clear, later S.W. and S.S.W., warm, fine; in
evening, N.W. slight.--_Mus. grisola_, some. _Hir. rustica_, _urbica_,
and _Cypselus_, ditto. _Caprimulgus_, one. _Col. turtur_, some.

14th, E., light, clear, warm, clouds from N.E.; in evening,
fresh.--_Lan. minor_, two, very rare appearance here. _Hir. urbica_,
some. _Cypselus_, many hundreds.

15th, E. by N., slight, clear, warm; P.M., N.E., fresh.--Early, many
_Cypselus_, almost nothing besides. _Mus. grisola_. _Sax. rubetra_, and
_Fr. montifringilla_, very single.

16th, N., fresh, clear, very cold, high clouds from W., low loose ditto
from East.--Nothing.

17th, E.N.E., fresh; cirri from S.W.; low loose clouds from N.E., cold;
about dusk, thick with rain from S.W., but wind E. by N.--Nothing.

18th, E. by N., slight; in evening N., windy, cold, clouds moving from
N.W.--Nothing.

19th, N.W. to S.W., overcast, cool; P.M., thick with rain.--Nothing.

20th, 21st, and 22d, N.W., windy, cold.--_F. linaria_, one. _Hir.
urbica_, four to five.

24th and 25th, S.E., clear, hot.--During the last days _Num. phæopus_
returning.

26th, N., early cold.--Also _Hir. urbica_ and _Cypselus_ overhead, but

27th, N. by W., warmer.--Can scarcely be birds that have done hatching.
Young Starlings in hatch-box flew out on 26th.

28th, S.E., slight, cloudy; in evening, E.--_Fr. rufescens_, one young
male, very faded, a slight rosy hue.

29th, E.S.E., clear, hot.--_Hirundo_ and _Cypselus_, many. _phæopus_,
returning.


=July.=

1st and 2d, E. by N., and N.E. and N., clear, fine, wind very cool,
cirri from S.--_Hir. rustica_, several.

Until 6th, northerly to E.N.E., clear, during day hot, great
dryness.--_Cypselus_, daily, pretty many, returning ones (?).
_Numenius_ and _Char. hiaticula_, returning.

Until 9th, N.E. and E.N.E., clear, dry.--_Sturnus_, young birds, daily
flights of twenty to fifty.

10th, easterly, clear, hot, dry.--_Sax. ænanthe_, one young, quite
motley bird. _Sax. rubetra_, ten to twenty young birds. _Numenius_,
_Char. hiaticula_, _Tot. glottis_, young birds.

11th, southerly, clear, hot, dry; in evening, thunderstorm clouds,
slight fine rain.--_Sturnus_, flights of twenty to fifty young birds.

12th, N., clouds from S.W., cold, dry.--Nothing.

13th, E.N.E., clouds from S.W., cirri W., cool.--Nothing.

14th, E.N.E., clear, hot; in evening, cool, clouds and cirri from
S.W.--_Sy. trochilus_ and _titys_, some young birds. _Sax. ænanthe_,
some young birds. _Vanellus_, _Numenius_, _Tot. calidris_, _glottis_,
_Ch. hiaticula_, numerous, all young birds.

Up to 20th, westerly, changeable, very trifling rain.--Nothing.

21st, N., fresh.--_Vanellus_, young ones, hundreds.

Until end of the month, northerly winds, almost always violent and
cold, with low loose hasty clouds. Migration trifling, almost only
Longshanks. The last week _Tot. hypoleucus_, _Hæ. ostralegus_,
_vanellus_, pretty many. _Sax. ænanthe_, scattered; all the named being
young birds. No _Sylviæ_.


=August.=

1st, N., in evening N.W. and W.N.W., thick, cloudy.--_Sax. ænanthe_,
ten to twenty young. _Vanellus_, _Tot. hypoleucus_, _calidris_, and
_glottis_; _Numenius_, all but stray birds and young ones.

Up to 5th, N.E. and N.; in evening, light, S.E., quite calm, fine
rain.--On the 5th, from 10 o'clock in the evening, very strong
migration of _Tringæ_ and _Totanus_ of all species, as _Ch. hiaticula_
and _Num. phœopus_ during the day. _Sax. ænanthe_ and _Sy. trochilus_,
young ones.

6th, easterly, light, clouds from south; in evening, N.E.--_Trochilus_,
as all the above Longshanks. _Char. auratus_, young ones appear.

7th, W., light, clouds south; night and early morning, heavy rain;
P.M., clear, warm, fine.--_Mus. grisola_, _Sy. trochilus_, and
_phragmitis_, few. _Sax. ænanthe_, young, pretty many; _rubetra_,
fewer. _Upupa_, one. _Cuculus_, some young ones. _Charadrius_,
_Totanus_, _Tringa_, etc., etc.

8th, westerly, light, rain; later on, clear; in evening, slight
E.--Single _ænanthe_, _trochilus_, and _Ch. auratus_, jr.

9th, N.W., windy; P.M., stiller, fine.--Nothing besides few Wheatears.

10th, south, fresh, clear, warm, fine.--Several _trochilus_ and
_phragmitis_; _ænanthe_, not many. Longshanks, pretty many.

11th, 12th, 13th, W.N.W. and N.N.W., stormy, with rain squalls. 14th,
somewhat better--All the time no birds.

Up to 18th, W.N.W. and N.N.W., violent to stormy.--Almost no migration
at all. _Sy. trochilus_ and _Sax. ænanthe_, very few.

19th, N. by E., at intervals still, and rain squalls; in evening,
N.E., clear, cold.--_F. nisus_, jr., several. _Sy. phœnicurus_ and
_trochilus_, several; _cinerea_, many; _hypolais_, several, appears
always, but singly. _Mus. luctuosa_, pretty many, jr. _Sax. ænanthe_
and _rubetra_, many. _Mot. flava_, scattered. _Anth. arboreus_,
several. _Emb. hortulana_, one. _Cuc. canorus_, several young. _Char.
auratus_ and _hiaticula_, _Tr. alpina_ and _minuta_, _Tot. glottis_,
three shot, all young birds.

20th, early, E., fresh; noon, S.E., clouds and cirri the same,
cold.--All the above, but only few. _Cypselus_, jr., several.

21st.--Nothing considerable.

22d, early, E., light; later, westerly to north, slight.--_F.
peregrinus_, _nisus_, jr., several; _milvus_, one. _Mus. grisola_,
many; _luctuosa_, very many; all young birds. _Sy. phœnicurus_,
_cinerea_, and _trochilus_, many; _hortensis_ and _curruca_, fewer;
_hypolais_, some--all young. _Sax. ænanthe_ and _rubetra_, very many.
_Mot. flava_, many. _Anth. arboreus_ and _Emb. hortulana_, pretty
many. _I. torquilla_, very many. _Cuculus_, several. _Alcedo ispida_,
two shot. _Crex porzana_, some. _Ch. auratus_, _morinellus_, and
_hiaticula_, many. _Numenius_, _Totanus_, _Tringa_, and relative
species, all very numerous. All the named, without an exception, young
birds.

Freshly pulled out tail-feathers of _Musc. parva_ been found.

23d, N.E. and E.N.E., fresh.--All those mentioned on previous days
again in great numbers. _Sax. ænanthe_, jr., very particularly numerous.

24th, N., fresh,--_Sax. ænanthe_, jr., again very many; but besides
those, less migration.

25th, N.W., fresh.--Ditto, ditto, ditto.

26th, N.N.W., light, overcast, cool; noon, warmer; in evening, calm,
E. (?).--The above, but only scattered during the early hours. At
noon, pretty many _Sylviæ_, _Anth. arboreus_, and _Emb. hortulana_.
_Caprimulgus_, some. _Picus major_, a couple. _F. haliaëtos_, two been
shot. All young birds.

27th, early, calm, then light E.N.E.; in evening, cold.--_Turd.
musicus_, scattered. _Al. arvensis_, some. _Mus. grisola_ and
_luctuosa_, pretty many. _Sylviæ_, less. _Saxicola_, pretty many.
_Anth. arboreus_ and _Emb. hortulana_, some. All young.

28th, S.E. by E., fresh, clouds from N.W.--_Sylviæ_ and _musicapa_,
but very scattered. _Saxicola_, pretty many. _Anth. arborea_ and _Emb.
hortulana_, singly. _Ch. auratus_, few.

29th, S.E. and E., light, clear, warm.--_Mus. grisola_, pretty many;
_luctuosa_, fewer. _Sylviæ_, few. _Saxicola_, pretty many. _Mot.
flava_, some. _Par. cæruleus_, some. _Ard. cinerea_, a couple. _Char.
auratus_, _hiaticula_, _Tringæ_, _Tot. glottis_ and _calidris_;
_Tringæ_, daily more or less. _Num. phœopus_ passing. _F. nisus_, daily
some.

30th, early, E.N.E., clear, fine, thick clouds northerly; noon, N.,
clear, cold.--Very slight migration of _Sylviæ_, _Mus. grisola_,
_Saxicola_, and _Emb. hortulana_. Early a few flights of _Num. arquata_
passing.

31st, N.W. and W., fresh, cloudy, cold; in evening, rain.--Almost
nothing at all.

_Note._--Until end of the month all the mentioned species, almost
without an exception, young autumnal birds.


=September.=

1st, N. by W., fresh, cool.--Very little migration. _Sax. ænanthe_,
jr., pretty many. _M. grisola_, many in the gardens; _luctuosa_, few.
_Sylviæ_, single. _E. hortulana_, scattered. _Anth. pratensis_, some,
the first.

2nd, westerly, light, clear, warm, in evening, east.--_Mus. grisola_
and _luctuosa_, many in the garden. _Sy. phœnicurus_, and _trochilus_,
pretty many. _Sy. suecica_, some, the first. _Sax. ænanthe_ and
_rubetra_, many, young. _Anth. arboreus_, few. _Emb. hortulana_, pretty
many. _Hir. rustica_, _urbica_, and _riparia_, tolerable.

3d, S.E. and S.S.E., violent, clouds from W.; in evening, rain,
light.--The above, but fewer than previous day. _F. nisus_, some.
_Char. auratus_, several.

4th, S.S.W., light, early, dull, then fog; in evening, E.N.E., rain
torrents, violent N.E.--_Pyrrhula erythrinus_, one young bird. _Anth.
campestris_, one. _Sy. suecica_, _phœnicurus_, and _trochilus_, _Mus.
grisola_ and _luctuosa_, _Sax. ænanthe_ and _rubetra_--of all but few.
_Emb. hortulana_, single. _Mot. flava_, a flight of at least 100. _M.
alba_.

5th, S.W. and W., rain squalls, windy; in evening and night,
lightning.--Nothing.

6th, S.W., fresh, clouds westerly; in evening, clear, light.--Nothing.

7th, light, clear, S.S.W., high clouds west, lower clouds south; P.M.,
S.E.; in evening, rain.--Very few _Sylviæ_. Wheatears and Chats, as _M.
flava_; also some _suecica_; and about evening, some _F. nisus_.

At Cuxhaven and Bremen, fog.

8th, S.E. and S., light; early, rain; noon, clear, S.S.W.--_F. nisus_,
jr., some. _Mus. luctuosa_, many. _Sy. phœnicurus_, _suecica_,
_hortensis_, and _trochilus_, many. _Sax. ænanthe_ and _rubetra_,
pretty many. _Mot. flava_, very many; _alba_, some. _Anth. arboreus_,
tolerable; _Richardi_, one. _Emb. hortulana_, many, all young. _I.
torquilla_, some. _Up. epops_, one; appears scarcely ever in autumn
here. _Hir. rustica_ and _urbica_, as _Cypselus_, many. _Picus major_,
one.

9th, S.W., windy, rain, low clouds, W. high clouds; in evening, N.W.,
violent squalls.--_Mus. luctuosa_, _Sy. phœnicurus_ and _trochilus_,
pretty many, in spite of the south-west wind and rain. In night,
stormy--thunder, lightning, rain, and hail.

10th, W. by N. and N.W., stormy, rain squalls; in evening,
light.--_Luctuosa_, _phœnicurus_, _trochilus_, pretty many in garden,
under shelter of shrubs.

11th, S., lighter, overcast; noon, S.E.; P.M., rain.--The above, but
not many. _Sy. suecica_, pretty many. _Emb. hortulana_, the first old
birds. _I. torquilla_; _Hir. rustica_, _urbica_, and _Cypselus_; _Mot.
flava_; _Scol. gallinula_.

12th, early, N. by E., fine, clouds N.W.; noon, wind W., clear; in
evening, S.W., violent, rain; midnight, storm, No. 9.--The above, but
few. _Char. auratus_ and _Tot. calidris_, some.

13th, W., stormy, clear.--Nothing.

14th, W., moderate, clouds S.W., cirri N.W.--_Hum. arquata_, almost
nothing besides; _Anth. rupestris_, the first.

15th, S.W., rain; noon, sunny; in evening, lightning, with clear
sky.--Forenoon, nothing. Afternoon, _Sax. ænanthe_ and _Sy. trochilus_,
single.

16th, S.W., fresh; early, rain; noon, sun visible.--Nothing during day.
In evening, from 10 o'clock, migration of _Charadrius_, _Numenius_,
and _Tot. calidris_; also many _Saxicola_, two score being caught at
lighthouse.

17th, early, calm, clouds, S.W., thick rain; 8.30, easterly;
11 o'clock, thunderstorm, with torrents of rain; P.M., E.N.E.,
violent.--_Sylviæ_, but many scattered. _M. luctuosa_, tolerable. _M.
flava_, many. _Emb. hortulana_, very many. _Sy. rubecula_, some. _Al.
arvensis_, some. The first old Starlings and first old Wheatears. _Crex
pratensis_, _Char. auratus_ and _vanellus_, several.

18th, E. by N., moderate, overcast; in evening, N., fine, cold.--During
the past night, much migration. All Longshanks suiting the season
numerous. _Turdus torquatus_, _Sy. phœnicurus_, _Mus. luctuosa_, and
_Sax. ænanthe_, many at lighthouse. Early, very many. _Char. auratus_
and _Col. palumbus_. _Turd. torquatus_, many; _musicus_, fewer. _Sy.
phœnicurus_, _suecica_, _cinerea_, _trochilus_, _rubecula_; very many.
_Mus. luctuosa_, ditto. _Anth. rupestris_, very many; _pratensis_,
fewer. _Emb. hortulana_, very many. _Crex pratensis_; _Scol, major_,
_gallinago_, and _gallinula_, both the latter numerous; the first
appears here always, but very single. _F. æsalon_ and _nisus_, some
young. Altogether, very strong migration.

19th, early calm, clear, light clouds W., vapour S.S.W.; in evening
wind S.W., fresh, thick, overcast.--_F. peregrinus_, one; _nisus_,
some. _Sturnus_, some flights of fifteen to twenty. _Turd. musicus_ and
_torquatus_, _Num. luctuosa_, _Sy. phœnicurus_, _suecica_, _rubecula_,
_cinerea_, and _trochilus_, all pretty many. _Anth. arboreus_, some;
_rupestris_ and _pratensis_, many. _Sax. ænanthe_, many; _rubetra_,
fewer. _Emb. hortulana_, not many. _C. pratensis_, _Scol. gallinago_,
_gallinula_, and _Col. palumbus_, scattered.

20th, early, light W. clouds, W. cirri; N. and N. by E. in evening,
wind fresh. Nothing.--_Sax. ænanthe_, early, from 8th to 9th very many
arrived, but besides these, all the species suiting the season, but
singly.

21st, S.W., violent, thick, rain; noon clear, N.W.; in evening N.N.W.,
cold.--Nothing. Very few _ænanthe_.

22d, N.W., fresh, cloudy; P.M., W., clear.--Nothing.

23d, W. to N.W., fresh, overcast.--Nothing. _Char. auratus_, pretty
many. One Bat.

24th, northerly, light, cirri violent from W.; P.M., N.W. Early not a
bird; later on some. _M. luctuosa_ and _Char. auratus_. Winter Sparrows
arrived.

25th, westerly, light, heavy cumuli, showers of rain with hail; in
evening light northerly.--_F. æsalon_ and _nisus_, some. _Sturnus_,
many. _T. musicus_, pretty many. _Sy. rubecula_, very numerous;
_phœnicurus_, many; _cinerea_ and _curruca_, fewer; _trochilus_, many;
_rufa_, fewer. _Anth. arboreus_, few; _pratensis_ and _rupestris_,
many. _Sax. ænanthe_ and _rubetra_, many. _Mot. flava_, many; _alba_,
fewer. _Al. arvensis_, some; _arborea_, a couple, _Emb. schœniclus_,
very many; _hortulana_, fewer; _nivalis_, some. _Fr. cœlebs_ and
_montifringilla_, some. _Col. palumbus_, several. _Scol. gallinula_
and _gallinago_, scattered. In afternoon a flight of _Corv. cornix_ of
several hundreds.

_Note._--It is striking that with such monstrous heavy cumuli, that
have the appearance of storm-clouds, so much migration takes place.
There must be better weather at hand.

26th, early calm, draught of air southerly, still so heavy threatening
cumuli at W. and N., but in spite thereof much migration; in
evening south-easterly, light, clear, clouds disappear, therefore
more favourable weather for migration.--Very numerous migration.
_F. peregrinus_, one; _æsalon_ and _nisus_, several. _C. corax_, a
little flight, about fifteen. _T. musicus_ and _torquatus_, many.
All _Sylviæ_, especially _rubecula_, very many. _Sax. ænanthe_,
many; _rubetra_, fewer. _Trog. parvulus_, pretty many. _Anthus_
and _Motacilla_, fewer. _Al. alpestris_, pretty many. _Emberiza_,
fewer; several _nivalis_; _cœlebs_, many; _montifringilla_, fewer.
_Col. palumbus_, pretty many. First Woodcock shot; two or three
more. _Gallinula_ and _gallinago_, pretty many. _Tr. alpina_, many;
_subarquata_ and _maritima_, of each a young bird. _Sy. superciliosa_,
one, _Anth. richardi_ and _cervinus_, of each one.

27th, S.E., slight, overcast.--_F. peregrinus_ and _æsalon_, young.
_Strix brachyotus_, about fifteen. _C. cornix_, 400 to 500. _Sturnus_,
many flights. _T. torquatus_ and _musicus_, pretty many. _Sy. suecica_,
_cinerea_, _atricapilla_, _trochilus_, and _rufa_, many. Mot.
_flava_, few; _alba_, pretty many. _Sax. ænanthe_, many; _rubetra_,
fewer; _Anthus_, few; _richardi_, a couple. _Fringillæ_, few, _Emb.
hortulana_, some. _Certh. familiaris_, several. _Hir. rustica_, pretty
many; _Cypselus_, some late. _Col. palumbus_, _Scol. gallinula_ and
_gallinago_, tolerable. _Fr. cœlebs_, very many arrived about evening.

28th, E.N.E., slight, light clouds, sunny.--_F. peregrinus_, old and
young; _æsalon_, young; _nisus_ arrived about evening. It is strange
that _nisus_ mostly and suddenly arrives late in the afternoon in
great numbers. _C. cornix_, not many. _Sturnus_, numerous flights.
_T. musicus_, pretty many; _torquatus_, fewer; _pilaris_, some. _Mus.
luctuosa_, few. _Sax. ænanthe_, many; _rubetra_ ceases. _Sy. rubecula_,
_phœnicurus_, _cinerea_, _atricapilla_, and _trochilus_, numerous;
_rufa_, fewer; of _trochilus_, now mostly old faded birds. _Sy.
superciliosus_, two very fine specimens been shot. Another warbler with
light bands on wings, the size of _rufa_, wounded, but not obtained.
_Mot. flava_, few; _alba_, more. _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_,
many; _arborea_ ceases. _Emb. schœniclus_, many; _nivalis_, very many;
_hortulana_ ceases. _F. cœlebs_, many; _montifringilla_, do.; _spinus_,
some. _Al. alpestris_, a few. _Regulus flavicapillus_, pretty many.
_Hir. rustica_, many. _Col. palumbus_, tolerable. _Scolopax_, pretty
many; _rusticula_, five been shot. _Ch. auratus_, many. _Tringæ_, many,
all young birds. _Procellaria glacialis_, a fine old bird with white
head obtained.

29th, S. by E., light, later fresh, S.E. clouds, S. by W. to W.;
P.M., wind S.W.; about evening rain. Storm notified from America
between 28th and 30th.--_F. æsalon_, _tinnunculus_, and _nisus_;
_St. brachyotus_--all, but singly. _C. cornix_, several flights of
hundreds; _frugilegus_, about eighty. _Sturnus_, some flights of a
hundred and above. T. musicus and torquatus, early, many. _Sylviæ_,
few. _Muscicapa_, over. _Reg. flavicapillus_, many. _Hir. rustica_,
tolerable. _Al. arvensis_, pretty many early in forenoon. _Emb.
schœniclus_, many. _Fringillæ_, few. _Anthus_, do. _Scol. rusticula_,
some.

30th, early, light, N.N.W., clear; P.M., S. by W., thick,
windy.--Almost nothing at all. Only very scattered _C. cornix_,
_Turdus_, _Sturnus_, and _Sylviæ_. _Trochilus_, _Anth. arborea_, and
_hortulana_, over.


=October.=

1st, S.W.; violent in night, N.W., stormy. No. 7, heavy rain, squalls
strong, lightning.--Nothing. _Parus major_ and _cæruleus_, some.

2d, N.W. to W., stormy, squalls, No. 7; in night, No, 8 to 9.--Nothing.

3d, S.W., thick, very stormy, No. 8.--Nothing. A great flight of Snow
Buntings. _Par. major_ and _cæruleus_, a few.

4th, S.W., fresh, overcast; in evening, S.W., clear to
northward.--Nothing. At noon pretty many young _Hit. rustica_. Several
_Sax. ænanthe_ and _rubicola_. _Char. auratus_, ten to fifteen.

5th, S.W., stormy, early. No. 9; in evening and night, thunder,
lightning, and hail.--Nothing. A couple of _Par. major_.

6th, W. by S., W. to N., violent; early, thunder, lightning, and hail
squalls; in evening stiller, W.--Nothing. _Hir. rustica_, pretty many
young birds; _urbica_, fewer. Some 31. _flava_ and _alba_ and _Anth.
pratensis_.

7th, N. and N.N.W., better, clear; later, violent, with rain
squalls.--_C. cornix_, flights of hundreds. _Sturnus_, great flights.
_T. musicus_, scattered. _Mot. alba_, some. _Sax. ænanthe_ and
_rubicola_, both stray old birds. _Al. arvensis_, tolerable flights;
_alpestris_, scattered. _Fr. cœlebs_ and _montifringilla_, not many.
_Par. major_ and _cæruleus_, a little party. _Col. palumbus_, some.
_Char. auratus_, several. _Lar. minutus_, many at sea off the island.

8th, W.N.W., fresh, cloudy; P.M., violent, overcast; in evening, S.W.,
stormy. Scotland, low minimum.--_F. æsalon_, [male]; _nisus_, jr.,
some. _C. cornix_, many flights. _Sturnus_, pretty many. _T. musicus_,
tolerable; _merula_, some jr.; _iliacus_, a couple. No _Sylviæ_.
_Sax. ænanthe_ and _rubicola_, some. 31. alba, few. _Anthus_, pretty
many. _Al. arvensis_, tolerable; _alpestris_, flights of twenty
to thirty; _arborea_, some. _Troglodytes_, many. _Fr. cœlebs_ and
_montifringilla_, pretty many; _cannabina_, fewer. _Par. cæruleus_,
scattered. _Scol. rusticula_, six to eight been shot; _gallinago_, some.

9th, S.W. by S., fresh, cloudy, rain; in evening, light, clear, stars,
on mainland S., slight.--_F. nisus_, some. _T. musicus_, pretty many;
_merula_, jr., fewer; _torquatus_, some. No _Sylviæ_. _Sax. ænanthe_,
tolerable. _Mot. alba_ and _Anthus_, do. _Troglodytes_, many. _Al.
arvensis_, many, especially passing on over the sea numerously;
_alpestris_, little flights; _arborea_, a couple. _Fr. cœlebs_,
_montifringilla_, and _cannabina_, many. _Par. major_ and _cæruleus_,
some. _Hir. rustica_ and _urbica_, tolerable. Few Woodcocks. Altogether
but slight migration.

10th, S.W., violent, chasing loose clouds; in evening light,
southerly, misty; later clear.--Almost nothing. _T. musicus_,
_torquatus_, and passing on overhead; _pilaris_, some. _Fr. cœlebs_ and
_montifringilla_, many; _cannabina_, fewer.

11th, E.S.E., moderate; A.M., rain; P.M., clear; in evening E.N.E.,
light, clear.--_F. nisus_, some. _C. cornix_, innumerable flights;
_monedula_, very many. _Sturnus_, flights like clouds in many
thousands. _T. musicus_, tolerable; _torquatus_, scattered. No
_Sylviæ_. _Accentor_, a couple. _Troglodytes_, tolerable. _Mot. alba_,
some. _Anthus_, many. _Al. arvensis_, many, extremely many passing over
the sea; _alpestris_, pretty many; _arborea_, single. _F. cœlebs_,
_montifringilla_, _cannabina_, _spinus_, not very many. _Hir. rustica_
and _urbica_, scattered. _Col. palumbus_, _Scolopax_, and _Char.
auratus_, all not many.

12th, N.N.E., light; in evening S.W., slight; rain showers during
day.--All the above, but in considerably smaller numbers. _F.
peregrinus_, one old bird shot. _Sy. rubecula_, very many; _rufa_, also
pretty many. _Accentor_, also many. _Reg. flavicapillus_, pretty many.
_Fr. linaria_, some.

13th, S.W., violent, overcast, rain shower.--Nothing. _T. iliacus_,
flights; _musicus_ and _torquatus_, few.

14th, S. by E., very violent, thick clouds, overcast.--Nothing. _Fr.
cœlebs_, _montifringilla_, and _cannabina_, some flights passing.
Thrushes, almost none. _Regulus_, some.

15th, S.E., slight clear, middle high clouds from W. by S.; noon,
light, cloudy. Wind, E. by N., clouds from S. In evening, E. by N.,
violent, clouds from S. by E. In night, east, very violent, thick
clouds from S.E.--_F. peregrinus_, old; _æsalon_, _tinnunculus_,
_nisus_, of the latter three several. _Corv. cornix_, extraordinary
many, hundred thousands. _Monedula_, flights of hundred and above.
_T. musicus_, _torquatus_, _iliacus_, few. _Viscivorus_, a couple.
_Sylviæ_, very strayed. _Regulus_, do. _Accentor_, none. _Anth.
pratensis_, few. _Richardi_, one. _Al. arvensis_, very many;
_alpestris_, hundreds. _Emb. citrinella_, some. _Fr. cœlebs_, numerous,
passing on overhead, but so high that the call of thousands over
thousands could only be heard from aloft without the birds being
visible. _Scol. gallinago_, some. _Rusticula_, none.

_Note._--According to the weather in the morning, there ought to have
been considerable migration--Thrushes and Woodcocks but prominent
westerly currents in higher regions acted adverse.

During the night to 16th, extraordinary strong migration of Larks,
Thrushes, Starlings, _Numenius_ and _Charadrius_; also _Strix otus_
(?) was present, and robbed on the wing at light fire, especially _T.
musicus_.

16th, E. and E. by S., violent, thick, low clouds S.E.; in evening,
light, E., uniform thick, damp.--Early, six to seven, yet extremely
strong migration of Thrushes, Larks, Finches, and Starlings. _F.
peregrinus_, _æsalon_, _tinnunculus_, and _nisus_, strayed. _Str.
otus_, some. _Lan. excubitor_, a couple. _T. musicus_, many during
forenoon; _iliacus_ and _pilaris_, many during day. _Sturnus_, very
many. _Sy. rubecula_, pretty many, besides no _Sylviæ_ and _accentor_,
_Regulus flavicapillus_, pretty many. _Anth. pratensis_, many.
_Richardi_, some. _Emb. schœniclus_, early, many. _Pusilla_, one.
_Al. arvensis_, very many; _alpestris_, the same. _Fr. cœlebs_ and
_montifringilla_, many; _cannabina_, fewer. _Par. major_, pretty many.
_Scolopax_, none. In the afternoon, from 5 to 6, a bat flew about in
the garden, chasing.

17th, northerly, light, quite thick, with rain, low loose clouds,
slowly from N.W. and N.; after midnight, dead calm.--During the early
hours until 9 o'clock, extremely large flights of Thrushes, flying
about high, just as if bad weather was approaching. _F. tinnunculus_
and _nisus_, some. _Corvus_ and _Sturnus_, few. _T. musicus_ and
_torquatus_, extraordinary many during the whole of the day; _merula_,
_iliacus_, and _viscivorus_, fewer. _Sy. rufa_, many; _rubecula_,
extremely many. _Accentor_, none. _Regulus_, many. _Anthus pratensis_,
many. _Alauda_, very few. _Emb. citrinella_ and _schœniclus_, some.
_Fr. cœlebs_ and _montifringilla_, many, the latter very many.
_Linaria_, some. _Spinus_, many. _Par. major_, pretty many. _Scol.
rusticula_, twenty to thirty shot. _Gallinago_, pretty many. _Rallus
aquaticus_, some.

18th, N.N.W., slight, overcast, easterly, horizon clear; P.M., high
cirri from E. by N., light, sunny, low clouds lazy from N.N.W.--_F.
æsalon_, scattered; _nisus_, some. _Str. brachyotus_, few. _Corvus_,
very single. _Sturnus_, some flights. _Lan. excubitor_, one. _Turd.
musicus_ and _torquatus_, many. _Merula_, _iliacus_, _viscivorus_, and
_pilaris_, tolerable. _Sy. rubecula_ and _rufa_, as _Regulus_, pretty
many. _Accentor_, some. _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_, pretty many.
_Al. arvensis_ and _alpestris_, fewer. _Emb. schœniclus_, tolerable;
_nivalis_, some. _Par. major_, pretty many. _Fringilla_, not many.
_Linaria_, twenty to thirty; some _spinus_. _Col. palumbus_, some.
_Scol. rusticula_, about thirty shot. _Gallinula_ and _gallinago_,
several. About eve a bat flying about in the garden, besides two
observed.

19th, N.W., slight, light rain squalls.--Early, nothing. _F. nisus_,
some. _C. cornix_, some flights; _monedula_, fewer. _Sturnus_,
but few. _Sy. rubecula_ and _rufa_, scattered. _Par. major_, few.
About eve Blackbirds and Finches arrived. _Linaria_, the same. _Al.
brachydactyla_, one male shot.

During the latter days plenty _Lar. tridactyla_ on the sea, also
_minutus_. _Anas molissima_, one old male shot.

20th, N. by E., slight, quite cloudy, rain showers; later, N.E., almost
clear; in evening, clear, light.--Very little, more migration across
the sea. _Corvus_, few. Sturnus, many. Turdus, very few. _Sy. rubecula_
and _rufa_, few. _Al. arvensis_, pretty many; _alpestris_, very many,
in flights of thirty to fifty. Woodcocks, but a few.

21st, westerly, light, and rain showers.--Very slight migration.
_Sturnus_, pretty large flights. _Lan. excubitor_, one. _Turdus_, very
few. Woodcocks, early, very many, 150 to 200 captured.

22d, E. and E. by N, light, clear, scattered clouds; in evening,
highest clouds from N., middle W., low, loose, hasty clouds from E. by
S.--_F. peregrinus_, a couple. _Corv. cornix_ and _monedula_, not many.
_Sturnus_, early flights of 2000 to 3000. _Turdus_, but few. _Anthus_,
not many. _Al. arvensis_, few; _alpestris_, many. _Emb. citrinella_,
some. _Fringillæ_, the same. Some _Col. palumbus_ and Woodcocks.

The westerly currents in middle stratum of air may have acted
unfavourably on migration.

23d, E. by S., fresh, light clouds from S.E.; in evening, E.S.E., very
fresh; clouds hasty from S.E., at 9 o'clock, thick, overcast.--_F.
peregrinus_ and _æsalon_, some. _C. cornix_, very many; _frugilegus_,
in afternoon, flights of several hundreds. _Sturnus_, single flights.
_Sy. rubecula_ and _rufa_, but strayed. _Reg. flavicapillus_, pretty
many, but yet no _pyrocephalus_. _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_,
pretty many. _Al. arvensis_, few; _alpestris_, many; _brachydactyla_,
one shot, No Thrushes and but a few Woodcocks.

24th, early, S.S.E., violent, thick rain; 10 A.M., S.; P.M., S.S.W.,
rain, clear to northward.--Early and forenoon, nothing; afternoon,
during calm, _T. merula_, _Sturnus_, _Fr. cœlebs_, and a few Woodcocks.

25th, S.W. and W.S.W., fresh, light, rain showers; in evening,
lighter.--Nothing.

26th, S.W. to S. by W., violent, thick rain; P.M., very stormy, No.
8; in night, W. and W.N.W., No. 8.--Minimum, west, Scotland; stormy
westerly winds in Nordsea. Almost nothing; very strayed single
seasonable birds. _Al. alpestris_ and _Emb. nivalis_, the most.

27th, W., lighter; during day, rain and hail squalls; P.M., W.N.W. and
N.W., lighter betwixt squalls.--Nothing; two to three Woodcocks.

28th, early, N.W., No. 7, rain and hail squalls; noon, S.W.,
clear, high cirri and little clouds from E. by S.; in evening, W,,
lighter.--Nothing; early, few _merula_, young birds. Pretty many _Al.
alpestris_, and one flight _Emb. nivalis_.

29th, light, overcast; noon, clouds slowly from N.E.; 3 o clock in
afternoon, E., fresh, wind and moving clouds.--_C. cornix_, many great
flights, thousands. _Sturnus_, a flight of 500 to 600. _T. musicus_,
few; _pilaris_, great flights; no _merula_. _Sy. rubecula_, numerous.
_Reg. flavicapillus_ and Par. major, pretty many. _Anthus_, few. _Al.
arvensis_, pretty many passing on overhead; _alpestris_, flights of
hundreds; _arborea_, twenty to thirty. Woodcocks, ten to fifteen
obtained.

30th, E. by N., fresh, overcast, cold, clouds from E.--During the night
many _Tringæ_ passed. _F. æsalon_, several. _C. cornix_, very many
passed. _Sturnus_, extremely many. _Turdus_, altogether few; _merula_,
some; _torquatus_, few; _pilaris_, many. _Sy. rubecula_, scattered.
_Anthus_, pretty many. _Richardi_, one. _Al. arvensis_, pretty many;
_alpestris_, very numerous; _arborea_, some. _Emb. citrinella_ and
_schœniclus_, pretty many. _Fr. linaria_ and _montium_, some flights;
_cœlebs_ and _montifringilla_, fewer. Woodcocks, twenty to thirty shot.
Very many Geese and Ducks passed. _Cinc. melanogaster_, one fine male
shot.

Late in evening, many _Ch. squatarola_ overhead passing; the air full
of call tones.

31st, E. to S.E., very fresh, cloudy, cold; in evening, wind again
more easterly.--_F. nisus_ and _buteo_, some. _C. cornix_, very
many; _monedula_, some flights. _Sturnus_, few. _T. merula_, few;
_viscivorus_, some; _pilaris_, many. _Lan. major_, one fine male. _Sy.
rubecula_, scattered. _Anth. pratensis_ and _rupestris_, tolerable.
_Accentor_, the same. _Al. arvensis_, pretty many; _alpestris_, in
masses. _Emb. citrinella_ and _nivalis_, pretty many; _miliaria_,
some. _Par. major_, many. _F. cœlebs_, extraordinary many passing on
overhead; _linaria_, a few flights; _cannabina_ and _montium_, some.
_Col. palumbus_ and _Scol. rusticula_, several.

_Note._--In course of the month, almost no curruca at all; no _Reg.
pyrocephalus_; very few _Accentor_; _Lar. trydactyla_, already early
very numerous on the sea; _Sula alba_, the same; almost no _Strix
brachyotus_ at all.


=November.=

1st, E. by N., fresh, clear, cold; P.M., light clouds from N. by W.;
in evening, cloudy, light easterly.--Not particularly much migration.
_C. cornix_, few flights. _Sturnus_, the same., _Turdus_, none at
all. _Rubecula_ and _Accentor_, pretty many. _Al. arvensis_, few;
_alpestris_, very many passing on overhead. _Emb. nivalis_ and _Fr.
montium_, pretty many. _Par. major_ and _cæruleus_, some. Woodcocks,
few.

2nd, S.W., pretty violent, overcast; P.M., fine rain.--Nothing.

3rd, S.W., pretty violent, overcast; P.M., clear, little high clouds
N.--Nothing; at Cuxhaven, fog.

4th, S.S.W., fresh, quite clear; in night, thick.--Nothing. _T.
pilaris_, a little flight. _Emb. nivalis_ and _F. montium_, several
small flights. _Par. major_, ten to fifteen in the garden.

5th, S.W., fresh, thick, with rain; afternoon, sun through.--Nothing; a
few _merula_, _Par. major_, _Regulus_, _E. nivalis_, and _F. montium_.

6th, southerly, still, clear; evening, S.S.W., nearly calm.--Early,
heavy dew; Bremen, fog; scarcely any passage. _T. pilaris_, some.
_Al. alpestris_, pretty numerous; _arvensis_, few; _E. nivalis_, _F.
montium_, and _Par. major_, some. _Lestris catarrhactes_, a very fine
specimen obtained; waited thirty years for it!

7th, southerly, still, clear; 9 A.M., fog whole day and
night.--Nothing: one Firecrest. 10 P.M., when for a short time clear,
great many _Num. arquata_ passing overhead.

8th, E., early, morning, fog; A.M., S.E., thick, with clouds; evening
clear.--Nothing. Early in the morning, _T. torquatus_ passing overhead.
Towards evening, great many _F. cœlebs_ and _cannabina_, alighting from
great height.

9th, E.S.S., fresh, hazy clouds, cold.--_T. pilaris_, _Al. arvensis_,
pretty numerous; _arborea_, a few.

_Fr. cœlebs_, _chloris_, _spinus_, _linaria_, _cannabina_, _montium_,
all great many. _E. citrinella_ and _nivalis_, also great many.

10th, S.E., fresh, hazy clouds drifting along; evening clear,
still.--During night some Woodcocks and Ring Ouzels at lighthouse.

_T. torquatus_ and _pilaris_, pretty numerous. _Al. arvensis_ and
alpestris, less. _F. montium_, many; _linaria_, some. A few Woodcocks.

11th, S.E., moderate, clear, fine; evening, fog.--_St. otus_, one
in thrushbush. _C. cornix_, pretty numerous early in the morning.
_Sturnus_, less so. _Al. arvensis_, not many; _alpestris_, great many;
_arborea_, ten to fifteen. . _Emb. miliaria_ and _citrinella_, pretty
numerous. _F. cœlebs_, great many; _cannabina_, _chloris_, _montium_,
_linaria_, many. _Col. palumbus_, some.

12th, southerly, fresh; night and all day, fog.--Nothing. During night,
_T. torquatus_ and _pilaris_, _Ch. auratus_, and _Num. arquata_, heard
at lighthouse.

13th, S.W., moderate, thick.--Nothing. Some _T. torquatus_ and
_pilaris_. _E. miliaria_, a few.

14th, W., windy, rain.--Nothing. _T. pilaris_, rather numerous; perhaps
east wind approaching.

15th, N.E., fresh; early, rain and hail squalls; from noon, clear.--_C.
cornix_, a few small flights; _merula_ and _pilaris_, rather numerous,
particularly the latter; _musicus_ also. _A. arvensis_, flights;
also during night at Lighthouse. _A. alpestris_, small flights. _F.
montium_, a party of from eighty to a hundred; _E. nivalis_, less.

16th, N. still, clear; during night some frost; evening calm, clouds
from E.N.E., clear.--_C. cornix_, small flights. Sturnus, forty to
fifty. _T. pilaris_, some flights. _Al. arvensis_, some; _alpestris_,
great many; _arborea_, a few. _E. nivalis_, scattered; _F. montium_,
twenty to forty. Woodcocks, about ten. _Col. palumbus_, some.

17th, S., faint, clear, somewhat below zero; evening, S.E.,
fresh.--Nothing; not a bird.

18th, S.S.E., still, clear, some frost.--Nothing. A few _C. cornix_,
early passing overhead. _P. major_, a few flitting about.

19th, N., faint, scattered clouds, about zero; evening,
E.N.E.--Nothing. Very few _C. cornix_, _Al. arvensis_, and _E.
nivalis_. _F. linaria_, ten; _carduelis_, one. _Par. major_, some.

20th and 21st, S.E., windy, cloudy, below zero.--Nothing. _C. cornix_,
about ten. _F. linaria_ and _E. nivalis_, a few.

22d, S.E., little wind, thick.--Nothing. _F. cannabina_, eight to ten.
_Strix otus_, one.

23d, E. still, very thick; noon, N.E.; evening, E. by S., faint.--_T.
pilaris_, several large flights, from 300 to 500. _C. cornix_, also
many. _E. nivalis_, considerable numbers. _Ch. vanellus_, great many.

24th, E., windy, overcast; during night, S.E., very hard.--_C. cornix_
and T. pilaris, some flights. Accentor, some. _Cinc. aquaticus_
(_melanogaster_), one. _Anser_ and _Anas_, great many passing on.

25th, S.E., very hard, thick, some snow, a degree below zero.--Nothing.
_T. pilaris_, a few. Some _Scol. gallinago_. _Anser_ and _Anas_, great
many passing on over the sea.

26th, S.E., blowing hard, cloudy; night, stormy.--Early and forenoon,
hundreds of _C. cornix_ passing overhead westward; otherwise, nothing.

27th, S.S.E., blowing hard, rain and snow; afternoon, S.W,--Nothing.
Storm warning. Magnificent fall of stars, uninterrupted.

28th, S.S.W., windy, thick; night, stormy.--Nothing.

29th, N.W., somewhat better, windy, cloudy; evening, still,
rain.--Nothing.

30th, W., fresh, clear.--Guillemots in the cliffs; rather early for
these occasional visits.


=December.=

1st and 2d, W., violent, open clouds N.W., cirri N.--_T. pilaris_,
a few hundreds on 2d. _Larus marinus_ and _argentatus_, astounding
numbers in lee of Island.

3d, night, S.W. gale. Nos. 8 and 9, moving W., bitter; evening, S.W.,
moderate, cirri, N. by W.--Nothing. Storm warning.

4th, S.W., Nos. 8 and 9, rain and hail squalls.--Nothing.

5th, W. and W. by N., No. 8, hail and rain squalls; afternoon, a little
better.--_Uria_, thousands in the cliffs at breeding places.

6th, Northerly, nearly calm.

7th, Northerly, nearly calm.--During night to 8th, larks pretty
numerous at lighthouse.

8th, N.W., very faint, snow showers; evening, squally, with snow.--_T.
pilaris_ and _merula_, some. _Fr. linaria_, several; _montium_, small
flight, thirty to fifty. _Char. vanellus_, several. _Ch. auratus_
passing on at night during snow squalls.

9th, N. by W., violent, with snow squalls, between squalls
still.--During night _Ch. auratus_ and _Num. arquata_, numerous passing
over.

10th, N. and N.E., fresh, early snow squalls.--_C. cornix_, several.
_T. pilaris_, small flights; _merula_, single birds. _F. linaria_, some.

11th, N.E. and N.N.E., moderate, clear; evening, calm.--_C. cornix_,
pretty numerous.

12th, S.W., fresh, overcast.--_Alca alle_, thousands flying about on
sea.

13th, W.S.W., faint, overcast, upper clouds N.N.W.--Nothing.

14th, W. and N.W., calm, overcast.--Nothing. Some _Lar. glaucus_, jr.,
between _argentatus_ and _marinus_.

15th, W., overcast, no wind.--Nothing.

16th, S.W., fresh; evening, very strong, W., rain.--Nothing.

17th, N.N.W., faint, overcast; evening, thick fine rain; night,
fog.--Nothing.

18th, calm, fog; evening, faint, east.--_Larus minutus_, pretty
numerous on sea.

19th, S.E. and S., faint, thick fog.--_Al. arvensis_, great many
passing on, some alighting. Some _Al. alpestris_.

20th, 21st, 22d, S.W. and W., almost uninterrupted thick fog.

23d, N.E., very weak, cloudy.--_T. pilaris_, a flight of from 100 to
150. _F. montium_ and _Emb. nivalis_, some.

24th and 25th, W., fresh, overcast; during night foggy.

26th, north, still, fine.--_T. merula_, eight to ten, mounting after
sunset from my garden on migration.

27th, W., fresh, clear; evening and night, stormy. No. 8,
S.W.--Nothing. Great many _Lar. minutus_.

28th, S.W., stormy. No. 8, storm warning.--Nothing. Great many _Lar.
minutus_.

29th, W., violent, hail and snow squalls.--Nothing. Great many _Lar.
minutus_.

30th, northerly, fresh to violent; evening, N.W., little wind.--_Al.
alpestris_, pretty numerous, flights of twenty and thereabout passing
on the whole day.

31st, S.S.W., violent, thick; afternoon and all night, thick
fog.--Nothing.


_Heligoland--Spring, 1886._

March 19th, S.E., 4 deg. below zero.--_Corvus frugilegus_, pretty
numerous; _cornix_, a few. _Sturnus_, do. _Al. arvensis_, great many,
enormous passage over sea.

_Mem._--At Hanover astounding numbers of "Crows," and great flights of
_Ch. vanellus_.

20th, S.S.E., little wind, overcast; afternoon, thawing; evening,
fog.--_F. æsalon_ and _tinnunculus_, some. _C. frugilegus_, thousands;
_cornix_, less. _Sturnus_, _merula_, _musicus_, _iliacus_, all
passing on. _Al. arvensis_, hundreds of thousands; _alpestris_ and
_arboreus_, a few. _Anth. pratensis_, great many; _rupestris_, less.
_F. cannabina_, some flights. _Ch. auratus_, _vanellus_, _hiaticula_,
all great many. Fr. alpina, less. Scol. gallinago, several. Col.
_palumbus_, some. Enormous masses passing on across the sea.

Hanover.--Crows, Larks, Wood Pigeons, _Ch. vanellus_, all in enormous
numbers. _Ch. auratus_, less.

21st, fog.--Larks and Plover passing on above fog, their voices heard
in great profusion.

22d, 23d, 24th.--All like 20th, passing over in enormous masses,
particularly during night.

25th.--Crows, Rooks, Daws, passing on in millions. _Sturnus_,
astounding numbers. All the above also in full swing passing on, joined
by _rubecula_. Wagtails, _accentor_. _Sax. ænanthe_, _F. cœlebs_,
_montium_, _Emb. citrinella_, _Syl. titys_, and a few Gold-crests,
etc., etc.

In previous years the Heligoland notes have been incorporated with
the returns from the East Coast of England, and they are now printed
separately for the first time. The special thanks of the Committee are
due to Mr Gätke for his interesting and valuable contributions to their
report.




WEST COAST OF SCOTLAND.


Schedules, etc., were sent to thirty-four stations, not including the
Isle of Man (five more), the schedules of which are passed on to Mr
Eagle Clarke for incorporation with the West Coast of England. Of the
thirty-four we have received returns from seventeen.

Additional interest and more painstaking schedule-work is evident at
the more productive stations. From Monach Islands three schedules have
been sent, but they are written straight across the columns, making
it extremely difficult for the committee to tabulate the contents. As
far as possible, the columns should be used for the purposes given in
the headings, as otherwise the labours of members of committee is very
largely increased. All the scheduled items must be passed first into
a ledger for the purpose, under species in each month, in the season,
and then only can the report be written out. We give prominence to this
explanation, as we are very desirous that our reporters adhere to the
columnar arrangement.

Here follows the list of stations:--

List of Stations.

Note: The names of the Reporters are given under "Diary from the
Stations."

  Returns
    in 6   In
   years. 1885.                           Values.  Feet.

  Sutherland.

     4          81. Cape Wrath,            III.     400
     4          82. Rhu Stoir,              II.     195

  Outer Hebrides.

     5      *   83. Butt of Lewis,           I.     170
     3          84. Stornoway, 2 lights,  { II.   }  56
                                          {  I.   }
     3          85. Island Ghlais            I.     130
     5      *   86. Monach Isles,         {  I.     150
                                          { II.      62
     2          87. Ushenish, N. Uist,      VI.     176
     2      *   88. Barra Head,             II.     683
     0      *   89. Rona, Skye,             IV.     222
     5      *   90. Kyleakin, W, Ross,      IV.      53
     2          91. Isle Oronsay,            I.      58
     2          92. Ardnamurchan,            I.
     6      *   93. Skerryvore and Hynish
                      Signal Tower, Tiree,  II.     150
     6      *   94. Dhuheartach,             I.     146
     5          95. Sound of Mull,           V.      55
     0          96. Corran Ferry,           IV.      38
     4          97. Lismore, Oban,           I.     103
     2          98. Fladda, Easdale,        VI.      42
     4      *   99. Rhuvaal,                IV.     147
     6      *  100. M'Arthur's Head,        IV.     128
     6      *  101. Skervuile,              II.      73
     6      *  102. Rhinns of Islay,        IV.     159
     2         103. Lochindaul,             IV.      50
     0         104. Mull of Kintyre,        VI.     297
     0         105. Sanda,
     0         106. Devaar,                 II.     120
     0         107. Pladda, Arran,          II.     130
     3      *  108. Lamlash,                IV.      46
     2      *  109. Turnberry,              IV.      96
               109B. Ailsa Craig, 1885,
     5      *  110. Corsewall,              IV.     112
     5         111. Loch Ryan,               I.      46
     5      *  112. Portpatrick,             I.      37
     5      *  113. Mull of Galloway,       II.     325
     2      *  114. Little Ross,            IV.     175


Diary from the Stations.

_Butt of Lewis._--Alexander Thompson and Gilbert Mackinnon, one
schedule from March 24th to November 17th, carefully filled. On the
15th and 16th, large whales seen close to lighthouse, going S.E. on
the flood tide. Starlings, Rock Doves, remain all the year round,
and "Sandlarks" arrive in May, and stay till end of August. During
July, "great flocks of Gannets continually going to and fro in search
of fish." An amusing incident was witnessed by Mr Mackinnon. On
the evening of the 10th August, a Gull got hold of a large "saith"
fish[12]; was unable to rise with it, so it towed it to the rocks, and
allowed the sea to wash it up on the rocks. Some boys went after it,
when it took to the water again, and pulled the fish to another rock,
and again allowed the sea to wash it up, where it eat its supper in
peace.

[Footnote 12: _Gadus virens_, Lin.]

_Monach Isles._--Donald Georgeson--Three quarterly schedules. Mr
Georgeson's schedules are able and masterly; and if we could have _all_
our schedules returned in a similar epitomised condition, no doubt much
time might be saved; _but_ in the meantime, schedules coming from a .
few stations out of so many stations, so epitomised, whilst the rest
adhere rigidly to the columnar arrangement, makes it more troublesome
to arrange details. Uniform attention to the columnar arrangement is
simplest for the ledger work.

The following is an abstract of Mr Georgeson's three quarterly
schedules, and may be referred to under _species_ in the next portion
of the report:--

Mr Georgeson writes--"This is an island little frequented by either
land or sea birds. The only birds that struck the lantern were a few
Snow Buntings and the Common Tern [Arctic Tern _vera_?.--J. A. H. B.]
Towards the end of January we had a severe gale from the S.W." Mr G.
found several Terns and Snow Buntings "dead from exposure." "_The S.W.
is the prevailing wind here._" (Explaining, perhaps, the above stated
scarcity of birds, as pressing them more easterly on their S.E. course
after doubling Butt of Lewis.--J. A. H. B.) A single Snipe appeared
among the "marshy pools" of the islands. "In January and February
I observed a large flock of Wild Geese, coming from the U.E., and
after resting on the outlying rocks here, they rose and flew west in
the direction of St Kilda." Shieldrakes--Two males and one female,
in February, seen feeding on the island, and three Common Gulls and
two Black-Backed Gulls. 1st March. Fifty Linnets (Twites?) paid a
visit,--wind south--stayed only a short time. A few Sandpipers remained
a week, but departed when the weather broke. Rock Doves visited the
island, but soon left. Sea birds observed from January 1st to March
31st are--Common Duck, Eider Duck, Northern Diver, and a few Scarts,
but these also disappeared with a gale on the 20th March from quarters
between S. and N.W.

In Mr Georgeson's next six months' bulletin, he reports:--

April 3d, wind S.W. Three Ravens and two Hooded Crows, and one _Golden
Plover_--local migration. He also mentions Sand Larks arriving to breed
about the 5th April. "The only land birds that remained the winter
are a few Rock and Meadow Pipits, which breed here in large numbers;
also about a dozen pairs of Wheatears and a few "Linnets" (_i.e._,
Twites.--J. A. H. B.) Two nests of the Eider Duck on the island in May.
Early in May the wind was light and variable. The only birds I saw were
three Black-Backed Gulls and five Herring Gulls, and a few Eider Ducks,
but as the breeding season advanced they left the island. Two pairs of
Shielducks came to the island _from the direction of St Kilda_--wind
light, N.E.--and were seen flying away in spring with their young in
a N.E. direction. There are no Scarts here in the breeding season.
They and other rock birds leave for more suitable rocks as the season
advances. Large flocks of Pictarnies arrive here in June, and breed in
great numbers, the island being covered with their nests.

In the last quarterly schedule Mr Georgeson tells us ;--By the 24th
August the land birds had all left, except a few "Linnets" (_i.e._,
_Twites_--J. A. H. B.), a few Rock and Marsh (_i.e._, "_Meadow_")
Pipits. A _Corncrake_, a very unusual bird here, came to our garden
on 11th August, but left on the corn being cut. September 7th, a few
_Scarts_ returned, and fifty to sixty Kittiwakes. Many _Solan Geese_.
Two Herons seen feeding on rocks on September 8th flew off on the 10th
seaward. October 5th, large flock of Snow Buntings part of the day, and
then flew off in a N.E. direction. On the 20th October a large flock
of Wild Geese came from N.E. with a N.E. wind, lighted to rest, and
then flew off _west_ (_i.e._, out to sea). Snipe usually remain over
the winter at Monach, but leave in the breeding-season. On night of
November 10th to 11th a Woodcock--a rare bird here--struck, along with
Terns, Mavis, and Blackbirds. Another rare bird was found dead same
morning, the name of which I do not know. "Exact colour of a Kittiwake,
the size of a Stormy Petrel. (No doubt the Grey Phalarope, young bird
of the year.--J. A. H. B.) A large flock of "Pictarnies" (_i.e._,
Terns) came from E., rested, and then flew away west, wind N.E. at the
time, on same day.

_Barra Head Lighthouse._--William Irvine. One short schedule from
February to June. Mr Irvine writes:--"Bernacle Geese last seen on
the 24th April on this island." There is some little confusion about
Bernacle and Brent Geese. Could Mr Irvine send us a head of the
so-called "Bernacle Geese?"--J. A. H. B.

Marten Swallows (_Hirundo urbica_) were seen on June 10th hawking over
the surface of the ground. Major H. W. Feilden and Harvie-Brown visited
Barra Head in 1871, and it is easily understood why it should _not_ be
a favourable observatory of land birds. (See "Barra Head and Its Bird
Life," and previous Reports.)

_Rona_, Skye.--Messrs Dunnet and M'Gaw send a short schedule--March
20th to November 17th. The contents appear under Species. Northern
Divers seem to be often seen about this district of coast, and also at
Kyleakin Ferry (_q.v._).

_Skerryvore._--Mr Thomas Dawson sends three carefully-filled schedules.
Rush of Thrushes, &c., on 12th March, continuing on 15th to 16th.
Several birds have been named from the wings sent by Mr Dawson; and
from description and drawing the _Pomatorhine Skua must_ have been
observed on the 25th May. Later Mr Dawson writes:--"Not one land bird
seen here since 28th November till to-day." Date of last schedule,
January 19th, 1886. Even the Eider Ducks have deserted us for months
past. Yesterday, continuous flocks of either Marrots or Razorbills
passing south. Fresh, variable.

_Kyleakin._--Messrs D. M'Culloch and John Clyne write, with two
well-filled schedules.

This is an exceptional year here. On the 16th November, at 2.30 A.M.,
with fresh (?) breeze and haze, two "Mavises" and six Starlings
struck--_the first birds known to strike the glass for the last eight
years_--and others seen in the rays of light. More birds have been
observed this season in a few minutes than have been noticed for years.
On the 27th November, wind S.W., fresh, gale with snow all night, and
two hours after the gale took off, great flocks of Starlings passed
from 10 A.M. till dark, only a few inches from the ground. These birds
had either been driven out of their course with the gale and snowstorm,
or had taken a new course of their own accord.

_Dhuheartach_, S.W. of Iona.--Mr William Davidson sends two schedules
carefully filled under correct columns--a practice which cannot be too
highly commended.

_Skervuile._--Mr John Ewing also sends us four capital schedules,
strictly adhering to the columnar arrangement.

_Rhinns of Islay._--Messrs Peter Anderson and James Ducat send eight
excellent schedules, clearly proving, as has been done before, the
superiority of this observation station; and I think in our first
Report we give prominence to the situation as intercepting the S.E.
flow of returning migrants from the Outer Hebrides.

Messrs Anderson and Ducat are much interested in the work, and many
birds have been sent us by them for identification. They write:--"The
last date on which we saw Solan Geese last year was on the last day
of November, and the first day this year was on 29th February. Birds
resident in the vicinity are, amongst others, Starling, Curlew, Snipe,
Jack Snipe (?),[13] Twites or 'Rock Linnets,' Sparrows, and Larks.
Later in summer Gannets or Solan Geese are seen daily 'flying east and
west,' and 'circling about fishing, from an odd pair to 100 in all
weathers,' A vast congregation of Marrots and Puffins fishing around
the island on 19th August, and some hundreds of Gannets, old and
young, 'floating along with the tide, so full they cannot rise.' All
disappeared on 21st."

[Footnote 13: Does not breed in Britain: probably the Dunlin?--J. A. H.
B.]

_N.B._--We would be obliged if Mr Anderson and Mr Ducat would adhere
to the columnar arrangement, and not write across the red lines, or as
little as they can help.

Hundreds of Moths also are reported "of various sizes flying about the
lantern on 7th September." A great Skua?--("Dirty Allan of the largest
size")--seen on 7th September. Also on the night of the 3d September
Messrs A. and D. write:--"We have had enormous numbers of what is
locally called 'Jenny Long-legs' about the station for the past three
or four weeks, and in the mornings there are great numbers of their
legs and wings lying on the pavement. This morning, after putting out
the light, I watched, when I saw about twenty Mosscheepers (_i.e._,
Pipits) working hard to make their breakfast off them. _I never before_
saw so many Long-legs in the fall. There is a usual _run in April!_"

From Mr Peter Anderson we have the following earnest appeal to other
stations:--

                                      Rhinns of Islay Lighthouse,
                                         _23d December 1885_.

  Sir,--I beg to return you the concluding schedule for this
  year, and most likely I have put a lot of remarks into it and
  previous ones that are of little account, and some of the wings
  I sent to you were most likely very common ones to you, although
  they were strange to me, or I had some doubts about them; but
  as I have now got the names of some of the odd ones in this
  locality, I will not likely trouble you with so many again. If
  my suggestion of including assistants as well as principals in
  filling up the schedules has been of any advantage this year,
  I would further suggest for 1886 that you should make a strong
  appeal to all stations to try for one year to give you all the
  information (and especially those who have not as yet sent in any
  or meagre returns) they can. First, what birds--or as many as
  they can ascertain--breed in then' near locality. Second, when do
  Stonechicks (which I believe are all over Scotland), Snow Buntings,
  Robins, Wrens, and several other small birds arrive which make
  their appearance only at certain seasons. In looking over the
  Report for 1884, the point that annoyed me most was, that I could
  not make out the names and terms of all the different species; but
  at John o' Groat's School thirty-five years ago there was no word
  of Latin. In '84's Report I expected to have seen better reports
  from some stations that I know, such as North Unst, Start Point,
  and Noss Head. At North Unst there are several migrants which build
  on the rock, and I wondered to see no account of Mother Carey's
  Chickens, as they breed on the rock, and at the end of August they
  annoyed us a good deal by striking the lantern and emitting an oily
  substance on the glass. At Start Point the Sheldrake breeds, and
  I have seen the Stock Duck breed on it also; and I was told there
  were thirteen species of Ducks frequented that locality, and I have
  seen Teal and Widgeon there in hundreds. Also at Noss Head there
  are various classes of birds which visit it in the breeding season.
  I once knew of a Grebe got in a small pond there. Trusting you
  won't feel annoyed at the above remarks, I am, etc.,

                                                        Peter Anderson.



_Lamlash._--Messrs David Scott and Robert Brown send us one schedule.
The remark occurs that "the Thrush is becoming very scarce here."

_Turnberry._--A carefully-filled schedule--dating March 11 to November
10--sent by Messrs Andrew Nisbet (principal) and Wm. Beggs (assistant).
Species well distinguished.

_Corsewall._--A good schedule also from Mr Robert Laidlaw, and all the
species apparently well distinguished.

_Portpatrick._--Mr James Beggs sends a short but good schedule, with
the remark: "Migration of birds this season has been very slight, and
we think the cause is owing to so much prevailing winds from the west
occurring on this coast [_i.e._, taking the birds further west at
further north points.--J. A. H. B.]. Flights of Black Crows [Rooks.--J.
A. H. B.] come and go to this vicinity all the winter through.
[_Note._--Ravens are known to congregate on this coast at certain
points.--J. A. H. B.] Great flights of Gannets in July, August, and
September, and then cease till early spring. Fly both ways--north and
south."

On November 10, _Red-legged Kaw_ seen flying south at 3.40 P.M., close
to lighthouse. (Is this still of the native breed, or a migrant from
further north?--J. A. H. B.)

_Mull of Galloway._--Two well-filled schedules from Messrs Alex. Murray
and John M'Quarrie. "A large Grey Owl. picked up one of the small birds
on the grating on the 17th October, plucked it, and swallowed it whole.
I tried to catch it, but it flew off."

_Little Ross._--Mr James Ferrier I have to thank for two
excellently-prepared schedules; and we feel sure that this station,
though it may not yield large numerical returns, will give returns of
considerable interest, whether negative or positive.


Separate Report under Genera and Species.

Turdidæ.--_In Spring_, a few odd birds--Blackbirds and Thrushes--passed
93 (Skerryvore) and 114 (Little Ross). In March, these increased in
numbers at both these stations on 7th, 11th, 12th, and 15th, and odd
birds were also noticed at 109 (Turnberry) on 11th and 13th. Apparently
almost a rush noticed at 93, with wind light N.W. on 12th, but S.W. and
haze on 15th. Fieldfares also noted at Little Ross on 24th, with strong
S.E.; one killed. On April 14th, a rush of Thrushes at 94 (Dhuheartach)
all night, light variable wind and haze; also Redwings and Blackbirds
at Rhinns of Islay on 12th, and two Ring Ouzels all night at Little
Ross. Blackbirds seen flying S.W. at 94, on 17th June, complete the
spring records.

_In Autumn._--Scarcely any movement in September, but in October,
considerable numbers of _Turdidæ_. Earliest record in autumn, one
Thrush on 1st September at 109, and one Ring Ouzel on 15th at 102
(Rhinns of Islay); and latest record November 16th [if we except
two records on 22d and 23d January 1886, which really belong either
to local influence, or is a beginning of the spring migration of
1886]. Thus the migration of _Turdidæ_, in 1885 is almost unique
amongst our records for the shortness, suddenness, and rapidity with
which it was accomplished, occupying limits strongly defined in time
by the above dates, _viz._, in all--leaving out the two solitary
September records--only from 9th October to 16th November, or 38
days. The stations participating in the rush are 93 (Skerryvore), 94
(Dhuheartach), 101 (Skervuile), 102 (Rhinns of Islay), 108 (Lamlash),
109 (Turnberry), 113 (Mull of Galloway), and 114 (Little Ross). More
specialised rushes were:--On 17th, of _Thrushes_ and _Missel Thrushes_
at 94, and of _Redwings_ at Rhinns of Islay; on 10th and 11th November,
of Missel Thrushes and Fieldfares, with few Mavises, at 93, 94, and
of the same species in small numbers, with large numbers of Thrushes,
Blackbirds, and Redwings, on 9th, 10th, 11th, up to 16th, at all
stations. Most at 93 and 94, but movement extensive and general at all,
and suddenly over by the 16th, if we except one solitary record of five
Mavises on the 21st at (Kyleakin) 90, the only record from that station
of _Turdidæ_. Prevailing wind strong S.S.E. to S.E., and back to S.,
all these two months; sometimes northerly in October, but never for
long.

Saxicolinæ.--_In Spring_, an extensive migration of Wheatears and
(or) "Stonechats." [The name Stonechat is the one almost universally
used at 93, 94, 101, 102, and 113, but "Wheatear"--the more correct
name for the species intended--is used at 88 (Fladda) and 114 (Little
Ross). The true Stonechat has a black head, and is about the same
size as a Whinchat, _i.e._, much smaller than the Wheatear. But the
name "Stonechat" is of almost universal use in Scotland for the
Wheatear--indeed, a generally accepted local name.] Earliest record in
spring, April 4th, at 102 (Rhinns of Islay); latest, 2d June, at 93
(Skerryvore). The general rush took place between the 11th and 20th,
and appears to have been unusually heavy, such terms being used, at all
stations, as "numbers all night," "fifty," "forty," "great numbers,"
"rush all night," "hundreds all night," etc. Perhaps 12th and 13th
had the greatest share, but it would be difficult to say which station
participated most largely. 109 (Turnberry), however, has only one
record of odd birds on 14th April. The May records are all at 93 and
94, and are all light. There are also two records of Whinchats at 114,
on 21st and 2 2d of April. The prevailing wind was easterly in April,
and oftener S. of E. than N. of E. In May the wind was westerly at 93
and 94, and again S.E. at 93 on June 2d, the latest record.

_In Autumn_, a partial rush took place at 101 (Skervuile), where
"numbers at midnight" were seen on the 6th. Records come from the
following stations, principally 93 and 94, a few from 101 and 102.
All records in September are from 93 and 94, and all are very light
indeed, except at 94 upon the 6th September, when a rush of Stonechats,
Wagtails, and Titlarks took place, with light S.E. breeze and haze, at
1 A.M. Prevailing wind S.E, August and September.

Silviinæ.--In March, two records of Robin at 93 (on 15th), and
(Turnberry) 109 on 14th, S.S.E. at latter station, and light S.W.
haze at former. Three other light records at 94 (Dhuheartach), 101
(Skervuile), and 102 (Rhinns of Islay) on 12th and 13th April, and one
record of Whitethroats on 5th May at 114 (Little Ross).

_In Autumn_, no great movement observed, and only single records in
August at 89 (Rona) on 1st, and at 90 (Kyleakin) on 25th, at 108
(Lamlash) on 23d, and Turnberry on 24th--the latter returned as a
"Garden Warbler," the others of Robins.

Phylloscopinæ.--Gold-Crest--Mere indications only of a spring movement,
and that only at 114 (Little Ross), single records on 12th, 15th, and
18th April. Wind easterly on first two dates, but light W. on the last,
with haze, when five Gold-Crests rested on the lantern glass all night.
In May, Wood Warblers are returned at 114 on 20th and 21st, light S.E.
and S., one killed.

The autumn migration also extremely faintly marked. One single record
on 23d September, wind N.N.W., overcast, 9.35 P.M.; and two on 10th
and 17th at 101 (Skervuile) and 114 respectively; wind on 10th N.N.E.,
clear, and on 17th at 114 variable and hazy. All relate to Gold-Crests.

Acrocephalinæ.--No records.

Paridæ.--Tits--One Titmouse at 113 (Mull of Galloway) on 14th April;
wind light, S.E.

_In Autumn._--Single record on 17th August at 113, wind light, N.W.,
clear; one on 1st September at 109 (Turnberry), and two at 113 on
October 9th and 19th.

Troglodytidæ.--Common Wren--A few single records in April and May,
about seven in all, at 93, 94, 109, and 114.

_In Autumn._--One record in August 1st at 89 (Rona), one record in
September at 110 (Corsewall), and half a dozen or so in October at five
stations--102, 108, 109, 110, 113. Six seen at noon on 23d; strong N".
breeze and haze.

Motacillidæ.--Wagtails--On 12th May two, at 9 A.M., at 93 (Skerryvore),
and five at 11 A.M. at 88 (Barra Head) ;-wind S.W. at 93, and fresh W.
at 88. The above the only spring records.

_In Autumn._--Two light records on 24th and 28th, both at 94
(Dhuheartach); north on first date, light S.S.E. on second date. Two
light records on 3d September at 113 (Mull of Galloway), and on 4th
at 93. Indication of general movement on 14th and 16th at 89 (Rona),
93, 94, 102, and 113. Two light records in October 11th and 29th at 90
(Kyleakin), and 112 (Portpatrick).

Of Pipits, one record at 93 on 13th April; light, S.E., haze. In
autumn, two records only at 94 and 101, quite faint; wind, light, east.

Muscicapidæ.--No records of Flycatchers.

Hirundinidæ.--_In Spring_, between 17th and 28th, five records at 102
(six seen, light, S.W.), at 109 (two seen on 20th, light, S., rain), at
113, two on 21st, S., and fog, and two on 28th; and at 114, four, the
first observed on the 17th April. In May, one at 93 on 26th, four at
108 (Lamlash) on the 9th, and six on the 11th.

_In Autumn._--A few records in August--a flock on 17th at 110
(Corsewall), all day, and flocks on 31st at 113 (Mull of Galloway),
flying S.E. against E. breeze. Martins were also seen at Barra Head.
In September Swallows and Swifts (see _Cypselidæ_) at 90 (Kyleakin) on
15th, and Swallows at 94 on 1st, and at 102 on 12th, 14th, and 16th--an
appearance of a rush. Wind, S. gale on 12th, S.W., and birds flying in
a southerly direction. In October, considerable evidence between 6th
and 11th at 114. The 11th the latest date of record.

Fingillidæ.--_In Spring:_ Sparrows and Finches noted at 86 (Monach
Isles, 9, v. under Diary) on April 17th. In May, Sparrows at 93, 94.
On 23d and 24th, "Linties" at 93 on 25th; and Tree Sparrows, two, at 93
on 26th--light S.E.--"resting on rocks."

_In Autumn._--On 17th September, Sparrows at 113 in flocks, and fifty
"Rock Linnets" at 102 (Rhinns of Islay). (Probably Twites, or possibly
Redpoles.--J. A. H. B.). In October, a flock of 200 "Rock Linnets" at
102 on 6th and 7th, and thousands of "Grey Linnets" at 90 (Kyleakin);
on 9th, Rock Linnets? Grey Linnets? Evident rush of Linnets,
accompanied at 101 by a number of Tree Sparrows on 9th November. Rush
lasted 7th, 8th, and 9th October, and another rush appears to have
taken place 4th at 102; 8th, at 90. Chaffinches, two only on 13th at
114. A few Grey Linnets at 90 on 25th December.

Emberizidæ.--Scarcely any indication at all. One record of Snow
Buntings on 6th October; two birds at 102, one in November at 94 on
14th, and of Yellow Buntings at 114 on 10th. The Snow Buntings are
returned as "old birds resting on the rocks" of 102. Wind in October
at date of record, fresh S.W., and in November strong N., at 94, and
strong E., haze, at 114.

Alaudidæ.--Larks--A considerable spring migration, but February records
are possibly really belonging to past winter movements. We give them
here, however:--

15th, Larks at 90, 500 flying south, 9.40 A.M.; snow, calm.

13th, Larks at 93, two on lantern, 2 A.M.; fresh, S.E.

In March, on 7th, four Larks at 114, N. to S.W., clear. On 12th, a
number at 93, and 12 at 94; and up to 15th, also at 109. In April, a
rush took place on 14th, and leading up to it from the 12th at 93, 94,
and 102; wind, light easterly. Again, large numbers on 18th May at 86,
and many remain till end of August.

_In Autumn._--A rush, but not very large, at 102 on 16th; fewer on
17th September. A rush again on 17th October at 94, and indications at
90, 94, 102, 109, 113 throughout October, and up to 17th of November.
Another rush at 94 on 11th November, and small rush at 102 all forenoon
on 16th. Stations 101, 109, 110, and 114 participated, but in a very
small degree.

Sturninæ.--Starlings--_In Spring:_ Four days in February, a few only
at 101, 110 (Corsewall), 114, between 12th and 23d. Also a few light
returns on five days in March, at 93, 109, 114, between 8th and 24th.
Bush from 9th to 20th April, principally 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, at 113
(Mull of Galloway)--wind S.E. and S.S.E. and haze--but also rush at 94
(Dhuheartach) on 14th, and on 11th and 20th at 110 (Corsewall). No more
records till June 27th, when thirty to forty at 113 (Mull of Galloway),
"mixed old and young."

_In Autumn._--Earliest on 15th August at 102; hundreds old and young
flying about all day--wind S., clear--and on 19th at 89 (Rona).
"Starlings" on 19th August. In September, flocks on four dates--7th,
16th, 18th, and 25th--at 90 (Kyleakin), 112 (Portpatrick), and 113
(Mull of Galloway), almost a rush--"flights," "flock," etc., being
itemed. In October, all the month, from 10th to 30th, rush at 94 on
17th (strong E.); rush at 102 on 21st; "great numbers," "flying about
from daylight till 10 A.M.," light, east. "Great numbers" on 30th at
109 (Turnberry). In November, 4th to 20th, almost continuous. Such
records as "rush all night" on 10th at 94. "Thousands from 10 A.M. till
dark" on 16th at 90 (Kyleakin), flying south. "Numbers all morning,"
10th (all day), 13th, and 14th, at 102 (Rhinns of Islay). "Numbers" at
110 (Corsewall) on 10th and 11th; and indications at following stations
throughout the autumn--89, 90, 102, 93, 94, 101, 102, 108, 109, 110,
112, 113, 114. A most general and abnormally extensive migration. In
December, latest 31st to January 1886--20th January, "some" at 102 and
114.

Corvidæ.--In order of abundance in _Spring:_ February (one), March
(one), April (four records), May (two). 1. Ravens--Seven on three days
in April, 4th, 17th, and 20th; two days in May, 1st and 13th--light
S.E., or variable. 2. Grey Crows and Black Crows, one day in February;
six birds on March 16th; two on one day in April at 94. Wind easterly.

_In Autumn._--In order of abundance in autumn: Nine months: August
(three dates), September (two), October (eleven), November (six).
Of _Ravens_, two on 20th and 22d February; seven on 9th September,
W. gale. Grey and Black Crows or "Crows," one record on 7th August,
"seen flying S.W. at 102; wind E., light clear;" 500 on 17th at 102
of "Crows" flying S.W. to sea, then turned and went N.W. (These large
flights _are_ no doubt _Rooks_, not "Crows," not "Carrion Crows," _not_
"Grey Crows.") "Black Crows and Carrion Crows" (_i.e._, I suppose,
"Rooks and Carrion Crows."--J. A. H. B.) are also given at 102 in
October; wind always easterly. All November, indications, but no great
rush. No records in December, but one in January 1886. "A flock of
sixty on 25th at 102." Rooks and Jackdaws, few. Stations returning
_Corvidæ_ are in order of largest returns--102, far beyond all other
stations; 86, 94 (Jackdaws one), 101 (Rooks), 113. Species are in order
of numbers--Carrion Crows, Ravens, Rooks, Jackdaw.

Cypselidæ.--29th April, one at 90 noted, and others at 90 again on 15th
September, the only records of Swifts.

Cuculidæ.--Cuckoo, first heard 30th April at 90 (Kyleakin) and at 113
(Mull of Galloway). First heard at 101 (Skervuile) on 6th May, at 110
(Corsewall) on 8th May, and on 11th at 108 (Lamlash). No autumn records.

Strigidæ.--Grey Owl.--One large Grey Owl, 17th October, at ______?
(omitted in Ledger).

Falconidæ.--April and June. Mostly, no doubt, local visits of "Hawks,"
"Falcon Hawks," "Sparrow Hawks," at 86, 93, 94 (daily in April). Also
in autumn, of the same and Kestrel, and a "Large Hawk" at 102 on 11th
November, flying east, wind S.W., haze; and at 98, 102, and 108, in
addition to the above stations in spring.

Pelicanidæ.--Spring records less numerous than usual. February, one
at 101 on 8th; one at 101 on 27th March; two at 108 on 1st and 4th
April, and two at 94 on 14th April; May, three records at 101--14th,
19th, and 29th; and June, four records, all light, at 94, 101, and 114.
Curiously, records of Gannets or Solan Geese--as they are called--are
seldom numerously returned on this coast. [_N.B._--We would be obliged
to our reporters at all the stations if, for next year, they would
give up one schedule entirely to Gannets or Solan Geese, and enter
daily observations of the species, including their numbers seen,
occupation, direction of flights and of wind, hours of appearance and
disappearance, etc.] In July a few itemed under three dates--1st, 12th,
and 16th to 20th. None in August, September, October, or November, nor
January 1886, except one of hundreds at 102, fishing close to rocks, on
16th September, and the record of "Extra Nos." at 102 on 2d October,
showing their daily appearance, though not recorded.

Ardeidæ.--Herons: Few records, and none of any significance: one in
March on 1st at 114; one in October at 102, on 7th; and one at 102 on
6th December.

Anatidæ.--Grey Geese [I wish I had heads of all the Geese sent me]
at 102 on 28th February; belongs, no doubt, to last season. No more
records of Geese till autumn: "Large Geese"? September 17th, at 102;
"Grey Geese," 10th October, at 102; one "Goose" at 102 on November
11th. Odd records of Barnacle Geese. _Eider Ducks._--April 17th and
21st, at 94 and 102 respectively; also same place, 17th May, "3 [male],
3 [female] flying west." Then in autumn, 25th and 26th September, at 94
and 102.

[After this the dates of arrival and departure will be desired, whether
they breed at the station or not, and if any unusual numbers appear.
Odd records occur, also, of Teal, Widgeon, and Wild Duck, of little
interest, but should, of course, always be returned in schedules.
"Swans" are noted at 86 (Monach Isles) on 24th March 1885.]

Columbidæ.--Doves: May records at 90 (Rona) of Wood Pigeons on 21st,
and Rock Doves on 28th. _In Autumn._--Only two records in September and
December, of twenty-five and twenty respectively, in S.W. wind.

Gallinæ.--One pair Pheasants at 102 on 16th April, lighted on the
island at 3 P.M.--an unusual occurrence. _In Autumn._--On 20th October,
a Hen Pheasant at 102 again, shot, "rare;" and again two Pheasants at
102, male and female, fresh E. breeze, haze on island. (This looks like
determined endeavour to extend range.--J. A. H. B.)

Rallinæ.--21st May, at 88 (Barra Head), fresh N.E., cloudy; 23d May,
at 102, "first heard," and one shot, light N. breeze, clear; 24th, at
90 (Kyleakin), "first heard," 8 P.M., rain. _In Autumn._--One at 108
(Lamlash) on 24th October, fresh N.W., clear. One Water Rail on 13th
November at 114; killed on dome.

Charadriadæ.--August, one at 109 on 17th--Golden Plover. Grey Plover
(identified by wings, J. A. H. B.), at Dhuheartach on 8th September.
Very few records of G. Plovers, Oyster Catchers, and most about
September 17th at 94, 102, 109.

But Lapwings bulk largely in October and November. Earliest, August
10th; latest, December 15th; rush if discernible: 100 on 20th October;
"numbers" about 9th to 11th November at 93, 94, 102, 113, 114.

Scolopacidæ.--January 1885, one at 90 (Kyleakin), belongs to 1884;
one at 90 again on 17th February (?); none in March (! ?); April, one
on 15th at 94, light S.E. _In Autumn._--October 18th, one at 86, and
one at 90; and one at 101 and one at 102 on 9th November. _Curlews:_
Many records as usual, but Ave fear of little value as regards tracing
migrations; and a few records of Snipe and Jack Snipe. _Sandpipers:_
Two records in June and October at 101, and one in February, same place.

Laridæ.--Terns: "Terns" at 101 on 22d, 23d, and 24th May, light S.W.,
clear, and variable. First seen at 114 on June 22d, S.W. breeze (see
also under Monach Isles "Diary"). In August, four records at 101
(Skervuile), between 16th and 22d, light N. and N.E. _Gulls:_ April,
at 101 and 102, feeding on herring-fry--Kittiwakes, "Gulls," etc. May,
Skuas, "Boatswain Birds," Black Headed Gull, on six dates at 93 and
101. Kittiwakes, "Dirty Allans," and Herring Gulls, at 86, 94, and 101
respectively, on 17th, 21st, and 26th June respectively. In July, at
101 and 108, Boatswain Birds, 1st to 14th; at 101, and other scattered
records. Ditto, at 101, in August 1st, 4th, and 6th, and 16th, 17th,
and 19th and 21st, and a few other Gulls. September, Kittiwakes at 101.
In November, "Iceland Gulls" at 94 on 6th and 16th; Boatswain Birds and
others at 101. Odd records in December.

_Procellariidæ._--One record--one caught at 86 (Monach Isles) on 5th
September. One, "rare here," at 114 on 13th November.

Colymbidæ.--G. N. Divers occur every month except October and December;
at 101 in February, March, April, May, and November; at 90 in March,
August; at 86 on 5th September; and in November at 89, 93, 94, 101,
102, 114. The above are nearly all single records, or at most a pair.

Alcidæ.--"Tysties" at 101, 12th April, and Scarts; and the former on
11th May at 101. Thousands at 102 of Puffins, October 15th, 1885. Other
records very light.




WEST COAST OF ENGLAND AND WALES, AND THE ISLE OF MAN.


Schedules were sent to the forty-eight lighthouses and light-vessels on
the West Coast of England and Wales, and the Isle of Man, and returns
have been received from twenty-nine.

The following is an enumeration of the stations included in this
section of the Report, those making returns being marked by an
asterisk:--


    No. on
      Map.

  Isle of Man.

      115.  L.H.  Point of Ayre.
      116.  L.H.  Douglas Head.
   *  117.  L.H.  Langness,            Robt. Clyne.
   *  118.  L.H.  Chickens Rock,       James Black.
      119.  L.V.  Bahama Bank.

  N. W. England.

   *  120.  L.H.  St Bees,             Henry Nott.
   *  121.  L.V.  Selker,              Geo. Cumming.
      122.  L.V.  Morecambe Bay.
   *  123.  L.V.  Dee,                 Messrs Work and Clague.

  North Wales.

      124.  L.H.  Air.
   *  125.  L.H.  Menai,               Joseph Steer.
   *  126.  L.H.  Skerries,            Wm. Jno. Rees.
   *  127.  L.H.  Holyhead Breakwater, Messrs Pritchard, Owen,
                                                  and Hughes.
   *  128.  L.H.  South Stack,         W. R. Burgess.
   *  129.  L.V.  Carnarvon Bay,       Messrs Thomas and
                                                  Hughes.
   *  130.  L.H.  St Tudwal's,         W. Davies.
   *  131.  L.H.  Bardsey Island,      Thomas Bowen.
      132.  L.V.  Cardigan Bay.

  South Wales

   *  133.  L.H.  South Bishop,        Alfred Frost.
   *  134.  L.H.  Smalls,              Geo. Baker.
      135.  L.H.  Great Castle Head.
      136.  L.H.  Milford.
   *  137.  L.H.  Caldy,               Wm. Ebben.
      138.  L.V.  Helwick.

  Bristol Channel.

      139.  L.V.  Scarweather.
   *  140.  L.H.  Nash (E.),           Henry Nicholas.
   *  141.  L.H.  Breaksea,            Thomas Walters.
   *  142.  L.H.  Flatholm,            W. Dale.
      143.  L.V.  English and Welsh Grounds.
   *  144.  L.H.  Usk,                 Amos Russell.
      145.  L.H.  Avon.
   *  146.  L.H.  Burnham,             Wm. Lewis.

  South-Western England.

   *  147.  L.H.  Bull Point,          George Knott.
      148.  L.H.  Bideford Bar,        Thomas Gilpin.
      149.  L.H.  Lundy.
      150.  L.H.  Hartland Point.
      151.  L.H.  Trevose Head.
   *  152.  L.H.  Godrevy,             Richard Trahair.
   *  153.  L.H.  Longships,           Jno. W. Watson.
   *  154.  L.V.  Sevenstones,         D. Norton.
   *  155.  L.H.  Wolf Rock,           J. J. Channer.
      156.  L.H.  Scilly.
   *  157.  L.H.  Bishop's Rock,       J. W. Troth.
      158.  L.H.  Lizard.
      159.  L.H.  Falmouth Harbour.
   *  160.  L.H.  Eddystone,           Wm. Ainger.
      161.  L.H.  Plymouth Breakwater.
   *  162.  L.H.  Start Point,         Wm. Jones.

The best thanks of the Committee are due to the above-named observers
for their invaluable assistance, and for the faithful manner in which
they have filled in their schedules. To Mr Henry Nicholas, Mr Robert
Clyne, and Messrs Work and Clague, we are in addition indebted for
their kindness in sending wings, etc., of the, to them, unknown species
killed or captured at their respective stations, by which means we have
been able to add not a little to the value and interest of the returns.
We trust their good example may be followed by others. The trifling
expenses incurred will be only too gladly refunded in all cases. Our
thanks are also due to Messrs Macpherson and Duckworth, Messrs F.
Reynolds, G. H. Caton-Haigh, R. P. Harper, and H. Harbord, for their
kind co-operation in furnishing valuable independent observations.


Diary of the Principal Movements.

The order of the stations is from north to south. The wind and weather
are given in parenthesis. For the weather the symbols of the Beaufort
Scale have been adopted;[14] and the force of the wind ranges from 0 to
12.

[Footnote 14: Beaufort Scale.--B. blue sky; C. detached clouds; D.
drizzling rain; F. fog; G. dark, gloomy; H. hail; L. lightning; M.
misty; O. overcast; P. passing showers; Q. squally; R. rain; S. snow;
T. thunder; U. ugly, threatening; V. visibility, unusual transparency;
W. dew.]


_April 13th._

_Langness_ L.H.--Wheatears very numerous; great numbers all night. Nine
killed. (E.S.E., light, haze.)

_Bahama Bank_ L.V.--Fifty-two "Stonechatters" (? Wheatears), at 11.30
P.M.; twelve killed, forty captured alive, also two Blackbirds and six
Daws killed at same time. (S. by E., 5, misty.)

_Bull Point_ L.H.--A Goldcrest at lantern at 9.30 P.M.


_April 18th._

_Rockliffe, Cumberland._--Great numbers of birds passing in parties
every fifteen minutes, at 8.45 P.M. until 11.30 P.M., and perhaps
later. They were passing in a N.E. direction at great speed, and
calling. Mr Smith distinguished Geese, Golden-eyes, and Widgeon. (N.W.,
fine, clear, moonlight.)


_April 22d._

_Langness_ L.H.--Ten Sedge Warblers and three Wheatears on lantern,
from 1 to 4 A.M. A good many Swallows flying north between 1 and 3 P.M.
One Grasshopper Warbler at 3 P.M.

_Bahama Bank_ L.V.--"About five dozen White and Blue Throats and
Stonechats at 3 A.M., eight killed." (S.W., 4; O. R.)

_Flatholm_ L.H.--Small flocks of Chiff-Chaff all night.


_October 8th to 12th._

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--"From the 8th to the 12th of October large
flocks of migrants were to be seen in the southern parts of the Isle
of Man, and were principally composed of Thrushes, Starlings, Linnets,
Redbreasts, Blackbirds, and Wrens."


_October 10th._

_South Stack_ L.H.--Several Larks, Blackbirds, and Goldcrests, between
12 P.M. and 4 A.M.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Large flocks of Larks to-day.

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--A large flock of Fieldfares at 4 P.M.


_October 16th._[15]

[Footnote 15: For the prevailing meteorological conditions from October
16th to 20th, see observations under the "General Remarks" on this
section of the Report.]

_Langness_ L.H.--One Wild Goose at 5 P.M.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Large numbers of Thrushes, Starlings, and other
birds all night.

_Dee_ L.V.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, Titlarks, and Linnets about
the vessel all night. (S.S.E., 3; fog.)

_Skerries Rock_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Larks, Thrushes, Starlings, Snipes,
and Woodcocks flying around the lantern; some killed. (E., 4; misty.)

_South Stack_ L.H.--Starlings from 8 A.M. till 1 P.M.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Fifty Starlings at 4 P.M.; a large flock of Larks
at 9 A.M.

_South Bishop_ L.H.--Thirty Starlings, twenty Thrushes, fourteen
Blackbirds, and four Larks killed between 12.30 and 2.30 A.M. Several
Mistletoe Thrushes at 9 A.M. (E.N.E., 9; B. C. M.)

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Seventy to eighty Starlings, twenty-one killed;
twenty to thirty Thrushes, two killed; eight to ten Blackbirds, six
killed. (E., 3; O. M.)

_Bull Point_ L.H.--Four Starlings, two Thrushes, and one Blackbird
killed.

_Godrevy_ L.H.--Great numbers of Thrushes, Redwings, and Starlings, and
a few Blackbirds. (E, 3; M. R.) Two dozen killed between 12 P.M. and 5
A.M.

_Longships_ L.H.--A good many Starlings and Fieldfares between 2 A.M.
and daylight; a few killed.

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--A few Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, and Starlings
between 1 A.M. and daylight. (E.N.E., 7; squally, rain, and mist.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Several Thrushes, Redwings, Starlings, and Larks,
from 12 P.M. to 3 A.M. Several struck. Sixteen caught. (N.E., 8; O. R.
M.)


_October 17th._

_Langness_ L.H.--Four or five Common Wrens; large flock of Grey
Linnets; large flocks of Skylarks; and a few Song Thrushes at 11 A.M.
(E, light; haze.)

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Large numbers of Thrushes, Starlings, "and other
birds not made out," throughout the night. (E. to S.E., strong breeze;
showers and haze.)

_St Bees_ L.H.--Three Grey Geese and large numbers of Fieldfares at
noon.

_Dee_ L.V.--Redwings, Thrushes, and Titlarks from midnight to sunrise.
(S.S.E., 3; fog.) Some killed. Titlarks, Blackbirds, Chaffinches, and
Linnets flying in company around the vessel during the morning.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Three small "Pinks" on deck at 1 P.M.

_St Tudwal's_ L.H.--One Blackbird at 7 A.M.

_South Bishop_ L.H.--Several Starlings and flocks of Linnets in the
forenoon; two Goldcrests on the rock all day.

_Smalls_ L.H.--One Ring Ouzel passing at noon. "White Buntings" about
the rocks.

_Flatholm_ L.H.--Enormous flocks of Martins and Swallows all day.

_Bideford Bar_ L.H.--Four Grey Geese at 9 A.M.


_October 18th._

_Langness_ L.H.--Flock of thirty Lapwings at 11 A.M. One Swallow at 3
P.M.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Large numbers of Thrushes, Starlings, and other
birds throughout the night. (E. and S.E., 6; P. M.)

_Dee_ L.V.--Large flocks of Titlarks and Blackbirds in company flying
south all day.

_South Stack_ L.H.--Six Blackbirds, one Thrush, and one Titlark killed
between 4 and 6 A.M. (Calm; C. M.) Small flocks of Larks and Finches
going N.W. from 8 A.M. to noon.

_South Bishop_ L.H.--Seven Martins appeared.

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Two Thrushes and two Blackbirds killed at 3 A.M. (E.,
3; O. M.)

_Godrevy_ L.H.--Two Swallows at 1 P.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Three Redwings and several Titlarks struck at 5 A.M.


_October 19th._

_Langness_ L.H.--Numbers of Starlings at lantern between land 3 A.M.

_Dee_ L.V.--Large quantity of small birds about the vessel from
midnight to sunrise. Lapwings, Sand-Larks, Redwings, Skylarks, and
Blackbirds killed; many others falling overboard. A Yellow-Hammer and
Stonechat alive on deck. (E. by S., 1; fog.)

_Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H.--One Northern Diver at noon going west.

_South Stack_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Ring Ouzels, and Larks from 1
to 6 A.M. Thirty killed. (E., 3; C. M.)

_Flatholm_ L.H.--"Crested Wrens first seen."

_Bull Point_ L.H.--One Blackbird and one Thrush struck at 3 A.M.


_October 20th._

_Langness_ L.H.--A flock of Lapwings at 11 A.M.; one Swallow 3 P.M.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--About a dozen small birds at 3 A.M.; three Crows
at 11.40 P.M.

_South Bishop_ L.H.--Two Larks and four Blackbirds at 3 A.M.; three
Starlings at 4.30 A.M.; several Wrens at 10.30 A.M.; one Hawk at 3 P.M.
(N. to N.N.W., 4; B. C. V.)

_Flatholm_ L.H.--A large flock of Swallows at noon.

_Godrevy_ L.H.--Several Starlings, Thrushes, and Blackbirds at light
from 2 to 5 A.M.

_Longships_ L.H.--A great many Starlings from 3 A.M. to daylight.

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--Several Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, two or three
Titlarks, Chaffinches, and Starlings from midnight to daylight.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--"Hundreds of birds here this morning. Missel
Thrushes, Blackbirds, Ring Ouzels, Fieldfares, Thrushes, Redwings,
Starlings, Larks, Wheatears, Flycatcher species, Robins, and Wagtails,"
from 2 to 5 A.M. (N.N.E., 3; C. M.) A great number striking and falling
over. Twenty-three caught. "No Fieldfares striking."

_Start_ L.H.--Twelve Starlings, two Skylarks, one Thrush, and one
Dishwasher [Wagtail] fluttering against the lantern at 3 A.M..


_October 30th._

_Langness_ L.H.--A few Blackbirds at 4 P.M.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Numbers of Starlings, Thrushes, Blackbirds, and
Fieldfares from 9 P.M. Numbers struck and fell over into the sea.
(S.E., 6; D.)

_St Bees_ L.H.--Two Woodcock at 3 P.M.

_Selker_ L.V.--Flocks of Crows, Blackbirds, Titlarks, and Larks going
south during the day.

_Dee_ L.V.--Do, do. do.

_South Stack_ L.H.--Ten Starlings killed.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--A few Starlings at 3 A.M. Large flocks of Larks
all day.

_Smalls_ L.H.--A few Starlings at 8 P.M.

_Bideford Bar_ L.H.--One Sparrow struck at 9.30 P.M.

_Godrevy_ L.ii.--Four Starlings struck between 6 and 8 P.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Flock of Golden Plovers; a large quantity of
Starlings and Larks, Grasshopper Warbler [?] and Goldcrests between
7.30 and 10 P.M. Twenty-eight killed. (S.E., 1; C. D. M.)


_November 8th._[16]

[Footnote 16: For the prevailing meteorological conditions for November
8th to 13th, see observations under General Remarks section of this
Report.]

_Langness_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Redwings between 8 P.M. to 6
A.M. (S.E., 2; M.)

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Large numbers of Thrushes, Blackbirds, Larks, and
Starlings throughout the night. (S., 2; M.)

_Selker_ L.V.--A great many Larks flying about the lantern all night; a
few killed. (S.S.E., 4; O. M.)

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Starlings, Larks, Thrushes, and "Pinks" around
the lantern all night.

_South Bishop_ L.H.--Several Wheatears at 8 P.M.

_Smalls_ L.H.--Starlings, Thrushes, Blackbirds, and Larks in large
numbers at 5 P.M. and throughout the night. (E.S.E., 3; O. C. M. D.)

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Many Blackbirds and Thrushes between 1 and 3 A.M.
Eighteen killed. (E.N.E., 3; O. M.)

_Breaksea_ L.V.--Blackbirds and Starlings all night. Eleven killed.
(E., 4; M.)

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--Thrushes and Starlings all night. (S.S.E., 3; M.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Redwings, Starlings, Thrushes, and Blackbirds from
1 to 5 A.M.; twenty-two caught; many striking and falling into the
sea. (S.E. by S., 3; c. V.) Redwings, Starlings, Larks, Thrushes,, and
Fieldfares from 9 P.M. to 5 A.M. (9th); thirty caught, numbers flying
around the lantern. (E N.E., 3; O. D. M.)


_November 9th._

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--A flock of Fieldfares at 3 A.M. A large rush of
birds appears to have taken place at this station during the night,
when numbers struck the lantern, principally on the east side, and were
most likely killed, for they left marks of blood on the windows. Flocks
of Thrushes, Fieldfares, Blackbirds, and Larks all night. Large numbers
striking and falling into the sea. (S.E., strong breeze: haze.)

_Dee_ L.V.--Several Blackbirds at 3 A.M.; a few killed and falling
overboard.

_Skerries_ L.H.--" Blackbirds and Chaffinches."

_South Stack_ L.H.--A Blackbird caught at lantern at 10 P.M.

_South Bishop_ L.H.--Sixty Blackbirds, forty Thrushes, six Larks, and
six Starlings killed between 1 and 5 A.M. (S.E., 4; C. M.)

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Six Blackbirds killed between 4 and 4.30 A.M. Four
Snipe killed at 4.30 A.M. (E.N.E., 3; O. M.)

_Bull Point_ L.H.--One Thrush struck at 1.30 A.M.

_Godrevy_ L.H.--A few Thrushes, Blackbirds, and Starlings struck, but
not killed, from 1 to 5 A.M. One Robin struck at 8 P.M.

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--"Grey Birds" and Starlings flying around the lantern
at 1 A.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Larks, Thrushes, and Fieldfares around the lantern in
the early morning. Thrushes, Blackbirds, Starlings, Larks, one Storm
Petrel, and "I think one Marsh Tit," at light between 9 P.M. and
midnight. Seven caught. (E.N.E., 3; O. M.)


_November 10th._

_Langness_ L.H.--"Blackbirds and Thrushes all night."

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Flocks of Thrushes and Blackbirds all night. One
Snipe killed. (S.E., strong breeze; haze.)

_Dee_ L.V.--One Thrush and one Blackbird killed during the night. One
Storm Petrel struck.

_South Stack_ L.H.--Blackbirds and Starlings from 9 P.M. to midnight.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--A great number of birds around the lantern all
night; one Lark and one Thrush killed.

_South Bishop_ L.H.--Six Blackbirds, two Larks, and four Thrushes
killed. Numbers at lantern all night. (S.E., 4; C. M.)

_Smalls_ L.H.--Starlings, Sparrows, Blackbirds, and Chaffinches at 3
A.M.

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Numbers of Blackbirds and Thrushes struck between
8 P.M. and midnight. Nine of the former and forty-two of the latter
killed. (E.N.E., 4; C. M.)

_Bull Point_ L.H.--One Blackbird struck at 5 A.M.

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--One Jack Snipe killed at 8 P.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Several Redwings and Starlings killed. One Jack Snipe
and Storm Petrel between 7 P.M. and midnight. (E.N.E., 3; O. D. M.)

_Start_ L.H.--One Snipe killed at 6 P.M.


_November 11th._

_Langness_ L.H.--Four Blackbirds at light at 9 P.M. One Snipe killed at
11.30 P.M.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Flocks of Thrushes, Starlings, Blackbirds, and
other species arrived at 11 P.M. (S.E., strong breeze; haze.)

_Dee_ L.V.--Many Thrushes during night.

_South Stack_ L.H.--Blackbirds and Starlings at lantern in early
morning, and, along with Thrushes, again at night, when several were
killed.

_South Bishop_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Larks, Starlings, and Thrushes during
the night; several of each species killed. (S.E., 3; C. M.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, Starlings, Larks from
8 P.M. to 5 A.M. (12th). Seventy-six caught, two hundred lost over.
(S.E., 5; O. M.)

_Start_ L.H.--A few Starlings and Larks.


Separate Notes on each Species.

_Turdus viscivorus_, Missel Thrush.--October 16th, South Bishop L.H.,
several flying around the rock at 9 A.M. October 20th, Eddystone L.H.,
"hundreds of birds around lantern between 2 and 5 A.M., one Missel
Thrush caught."

_Turdus musicus_, Song Thrush.--Spring: Continuous movements throughout
February reported along the entire coast; the chief between the 11th
and 17th, when Thrushes were observed or killed nightly. At the
South Bishop L.H., a most important station, ninety-seven Thrushes,
Blackbirds, and Starlings were captured at 3 A.M. on the 15th. On the
20th of April another important movement was observed at the Chickens
Rock L.H. at 11 P.M., when flocks of Thrushes and Fieldfares, along
with Goldcrests and Larks, were careering round the lantern, some being
killed.

Autumn: The initiatory movement was observed at the Chickens Rock
on the 2d of September, where at 9 P.M. four were fluttering around
the light. On the 25th of September, at the same station, a few were
observed at 10.30 P.M., along with Blackbirds. From the 8th to the 19th
of October the movements appear to have been continuous; on the 16th
migrants were noted in numbers at most stations between the Isle of Man
and the Eddystone, many being killed (S.E. and E.). During November
there were regular movements up to the 16th, the chief being on the
8th, and covering the entire coast (S.E., moderate, cloudy); on the 9th
forty were killed at the South Bishop L.H.; on the 10th from eighty to
one hundred struck the Nash (E.), forty-two being killed.

_Turdus iliacus_, Redwing.--Autumn: First noted at Carlisle on
September 20th. At Godrevy L.H., at 11 P.M., on October 15th; on the
16th October at the Dee L.V. and the Eddystone L.H. in considerable
numbers; on the 17th, 19th, and 30th several were killed at the Dee
L.V. November--from the 1st to the 12th they occurred almost daily at
Langness and Eddystone; on the 25th twelve were killed at the Nash.
Finally, on December 13th one struck the Breaksea light. This species
is recorded as perishing at the lanterns in much larger numbers than
its congeners; thirty-five were killed at the Eddystone on the 11th of
November.

_Turdus pilaris_, Fieldfare.--Spring: April 20th, Chickens Rock,
flocks, along with Thrushes, Larks, and Goldcrests, at 11 P.M. (S.W.,
light, haze).

Autumn: First noted on October 3d at Carlisle; on October 8th, 9th, and
10th at the Chickens Rock, and on the last-named date a large flock
appeared at 4 P.M. at the Nash; on the 16th numbers at the Longships
from 2 A.M. till daylight; on 17th Fieldfares appeared at St Bees in
the afternoon. During November immigrants were observed on the 5th and
6th at Burnham, 8th at Eddystone, 9th at Chickens Rock, and 12th at
Burnham. Very few Fieldfares appear to perish at the lanterns.

_Turdus merula_, Blackbird.--Spring: General movements from 12th to
17th of February, when they were observed during the night at eight
stations, ranging between Langness and the Eddystone. On April 13th,
two were killed on the Bahama Bank L.V. at 11.30 P.M.

Autumn.--First noted at the Eddystone on 13th: of August, when several
were killed at 11.30 P.M. Reported on many occasions from most stations
during October and November. The most general movement occurred on the
16th October, when it is recorded from nine stations between the Calf
of Man and Land's-End. Another general movement on November 9th, on
which occasion sixty Blackbirds and forty Thrushes were killed at the
South Bishop. Only reported during the night and early morning.

_Turdus torquatus_, Ring Ouzel.--Autumn: October 17th, Smalls, one
passing south at noon. October 19th, South Stack, Ring Ouzels from 1
to 6 A.M., along with Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Larks. October 20th,
Eddystone, along with other species between 2 and 5 A.M.; one killed.

_Saxicola ænanthe_, Wheatear.--Spring: March 26th, Cumberland, arrived
at Ravenglass; 29th, Langness, a male. April 2d, six or eight at
Langness at 11 A.M. The main body arrived on the 13th, when they were
very numerous at Langness at 4.30 P.M., and numbers were at the lantern
all night, four males and three females being picked up dead; at the
Bahama Bank L.V. the same night, fifty-two were killed or captured.
(E.S.E., fresh, haze.) On the early morning of April 22d, they again
occurred in some numbers at both of these stations.

Autumn.--First noted at Langness on the 3d of August, more on the
9th and 18th; several at the Eddystone on the 23d; large numbers at
Langness on the 30th. October 30th, many at the Eddystone from 2 to
5 A.M., along with Missel Thrushes, Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings,
Fieldfares, etc. November 8th, Langness, several at light at 8 P.M.

_Pratincola rubetra_, Whinchat.--April 22d, Carlisle.

_Ruticilla phœnicurus_, Redstart.--April 26th, Carlisle.

_Ruticilla titys_, Black Redstart.--I received from Mr Henry Nicholas
the wings, tail, and feet of a female which had been killed against the
Nash (E.) lantern at midnight on the 8th of November.

_Erithacus rubecula_, Redbreast.--August 12th, one appeared at
Langness. September 7th, South Stack, one at the lantern at 4 A.M.;
27th, a few at Langness at 11 A.M. October 9th, numbers, along with
Thrushes and Fieldfares, at the Chickens Rock; on the 20th, many, along
with several species of _Turdinæ_, etc., at the Eddystone between 2 and
5 A.M. November 13th, at 3 A.M. at the Start.

_Sylvia cinerea_, Whitethroat.--Spring: April 23d, Carlisle. April
27th, Merionethshire.

Autumn.--August 14th, Godrevy, one killed at 2 A.M. September 5th, St
Bees, one struck lantern at 2 A.M.

_Sylvia atricapilla_, Blackcap.--April 15th, Merionethshire.

_Phylloscopus collybita_, Chiff-Chaff.--Spring: March 25th,
Merionethshire, one at Penrhyndendraeth; no more till 28th, when they
became abundant. Cumberland, April 2d, Carlisle.

Autumn.--September 19th, Cumberland, one at Ravenglass.

_Phylloscopus trochilus_, Willow Wren.--April 15th, Merionethshire,
first observed. April 19th, Carlisle.

_Acrocephalus phragmitis_, Sedge-Warbler.--April 22d, Langness, ten
at lantern from midnight to 4 A.M.; 29th, Cumberland, observed at
Ravenglass.

_Locustella nævia_, Grasshopper Warbler.--Spring: April 22d, Langness,
one at 3 P.M.; 30th, Carlisle.

Autumn.--October 30th, Eddystone, one killed, between 7 and 10 P.M.,
along with Larks and Goldcrests [?].

_Accentor modularis_, Fledge Sparrow.--Spring: March 20th. Langness,
one at 6 P.M.

Autumn.--October 18th, Langness, one at 1.30 P.M.

_Parus_ ----, Titmouse.--September 2d, Chickens Rock, three "Titmice"
at lantern at 7 P.M.; 6th, two at 11.30 P.M. A small bird with a black
head, and supposed to be a Marsh Titmouse, was killed at the Eddy stone
on the night of November 9th.

_Troglodytes parvulus_, Wren.--Spring: Langness, March 10th, one at
11.30 A.M.; 29th, one, and a Wheatear, at 11 A.M.; April 26th, one at 9
A.M.

Autumn.--August 23d, Dee L.V., one caught at lantern at 2 A.M. October
8th to 12th, Wrens and other migrants numerous at the Chickens Rock;
20th, South Bishop, several at 10.30 P.M. November 9th, Langness, a few
at 4 P.M.

_Motacilla_ ----, Wagtail.--Spring: March 4th, Langness, one at 10
A.M.; Merionethshire, _M. lugubris_ in some numbers at Penrhyndendraeth.

Autumn.--September 8th, Chickens Rock, two at 11 A.M. October 10th,
Langness, a large flock of Pied Wagtails (_M. lugubris_) at 2.30 P.M.;
20th, Eddystone, hundreds of birds here this morning between 2 and 5
A.M., Wagtails, Thrushes, etc.; Start, one killed at 3 a.m.; 25th, Dee
L.V., one Pied Wagtail on deck at 9 A.M.; 30th, Dee L.V.. Wagtails,
Titlarks, etc., passing S.W. all day.

_Motacilla alba_, White Wagtail.--May 2d, Merionethshire, one at
Penrhyndendraeth.

_Motacilla rayi_, Yellow Wagtail.--May 3d, Carlisle.

_Anthus pratensis_, Pipit, "Titlark."--Spring: March 29th, a very large
flock appeared at the Selker L.V. at noon.

Autumn: First noted at the Dee L.V. on the 15th of August, at 2 P.M.
During September, observed at the Dee L.V. (6th), Langness (15th and
24th), Bishop Rock (17th). From the 15th to 30th of October, observed
almost daily at the Dee L.V., often in very considerable numbers, and
notably on the 18th, 21st, and 25th, when continuous streams passed,
flying S. or S.W; on the 18th they occurred in some numbers, along with
other species, at the Eddystone and the Start. From the 1st to 9th of
November they passed the Dee vessel almost daily. On December 29th, six
were observed at the Dee L.V. On comparatively few instances noted as
migrating at night.

_Anthus trivialis_, Tree Pipit.--April 19th, Merionethshire, arrived;
Carlisle, same date.

_Anthus obscurus_, Rock Pipit.--Spring: March 29th, Langness, several
appeared at 11 A.M.

Autumn: November 3d, Chickens Rock, several at lantern, along with
Thrushes, at 3 A.M.

_Lanius excubitor_, Great Grey Shrike.--March 9th, Cumberland, one at
Floriston. April 27th, one at Grimsdale.

_Lanius collurio_, Red-backed Shrike.--August 12th, Cumberland, one,
immature, at Lazonby.

_Hirundo rustica_, Swallow.--Spring: First observed at the Carnarvon
Bay L.V. on the 23d of March; next on the 31st, when two were seen at
Bull Point. At Langness, a few were seen on the 18th and 19th of April;
on the 22d, a good many, and arrivals up to the 30th. On the 15th of
May, "very many" appeared at Langness between 4 and 7 P.M.

Autumn: Three observed at the Dee L.V. on the 31st of July, and seven
on the 9th of August. On the 17th of October an enormous flock was
observed at Flatholm; and on the 25th, four or five at Langness.

_Chelidon urbica_, Martin.--Spring: April 23d, Carlisle.

Autumn: September 21st and 22d, large flocks at Flatholm. October 7th,
South Bishop, two at 4 P.M.; 8th, seven.

_Carduelis elegans_, Goldfinch.--January 19th, one on Caldy Island.

_Ligurinus chloris_, Greenfinch.--November 9th, Selker L.V., one on
deck along with a Lark, both "too weak to leave the ship."

_Passer domesticus_, House Sparrow.--October 30th, Bideford Bar, one
struck the lantern, and caught. November 8th, Smalls, Sparrows, along
with Thrushes, etc., at 3 AM.; 26th, Menai, "Sparrows" in the morning.

_Fringilla cœlebs_, Chaffinch.--Spring: February 14th, Langness, one at
8 A.M.; 28th, another at 9 A.M. March 8th and 12th, one each day; 15th,
two, male and female; April 9th, one,--all at Langness.

Autumn: August 25th and 28th, single birds on the deck of the Dee
vessel. Noted singly on several dates during October at Langness and
the Selker L.V. On the 20th October at South Bishop, during the night,
along with other species. Two on deck of the Dee L.V. on the 9th
November, along with Blackbirds; and at the Skerries on the same date.
On the 10th November, several at 3 A.M.. at the Smalls. December 1st,
several at the Skerries at 2 A.M., along with Thrushes, Blackbirds,
etc.

_Linota cannabina_, Linnet.--Spring: February 26th, Chickens Rock,
flocks along with Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Larks at 8 P.M. March 5th
and 19th, small flocks at Langness in the forenoon.

Autumn: First noted at Chickens Rock on September 2d at 9 P.M., along
with Thrushes, etc. Observed in flocks at intervals during September,
October, and November, migrating chiefly during the day. Noted at
several stations on the morning of October 17th.

_Pyrrhula europæa_, Bullfinch.--October 21st, Carnarvon Bay L.V. ,
seventeen Bullfinches, passing to S.S.E. at 10 A.M.

_Emberiza citrinella_, Yellow Hammer.--October 19th, Dee L.V., one on
deck at 8 A.M. December 26th, Langness, two at 11 A.M.

_Plectrophanes nivalis_, Snow Bunting.--October 5th, Cumberland, one at
Silloth. October 17th, Smalls, several "White Buntings" about the rocks.

_Sturnus vulgaris_, Starling.--The enormous numbers, and the frequency
with which this species occurs at almost all the stations, are again
marked features in the returns. Noted for every month save May and
June, and would appear to "flock" early, since numbers appeared
at Langness on the 7th of July. Most numerous and frequent during
September, October, and November.

_Corvus corone_, Carrion Crow.--Spring: March 1st, Carnarvon Bay L.V.,
four at 10 A.M.; 21st, two at 11 A.M.; and 28th, several at noon,--all
flying E.

Autumn: October 20th, Carnarvon Bay L.V., three at noon, flying
N.E.; 30th, Selker L.V., a flock flying S.W. at 7 A.M. November 8th,
Holyhead, six going E. at 9 A.M.

_Corvus frugilegus_, Rook.--March 4th, Chickens Rock, twenty-five
flying W. at 9 A.M.; 5th, about fifty passing to W. at 10 A.M. Bahama
Bank, L.V., March 16th, one flying W. at 8 A.M.

_Alauda arvensis_, Skylark.--Next to the Starling, "Larks" and Skylarks
form the most numerous entries in the schedules. In the earlier portion
of the year, they are noted as occurring between February 13th at the
Eddystone, to April 20th at the Chickens Rock. In the autumn, the
entries are extremely numerous, commencing at St Bees on September 9th.
During October and November, continuous streams passed the majority of
the stations; this was particularly the case between the 8th and 13th
of October, and 4th and 9th of November. The migration lasted until the
21st of December. Always noted in flocks.

_Alauda arborea_, Woodlark.--November 9th, Eddystone, one killed
between 8 P.M. and 5 A.M. (10th), along with Thrushes, Redwings, and
Larks.

_Cypselus apus_, Swift.--Spring: April 26th, Cumberland, five at
Rockliffe; 29th, more. May 4th, Langness, two at 6 P.M.

Autumn.--First autumn movement observed on August 2d at Langness;
general movement on the 3d, when fourteen struck the Nash lantern
between 10.30 and 11.30 P.M., four being killed (a Cuckoo and a
Willow-Wren killed at same time); on the 12th (August) one was caught
roosting at Langness; and on the 19th the last was seen at Rockliffe,
Cumberland.

_Caprimulgus europæus_, Nightjar.--April 27th, Merionethshire, arrived
at Penrhyndendraeth.

_Cuculus canorus_, Cuckoo.--Spring: April 18th and 25th, Cumberland;
27th, Merionethshire. May 4th, Langness, one caught at 11.30 P.M.

Autumn.--July 25th, one at Langness. August 3d, a bird of the year
killed at 10.30 P.M. at the Nash. This was migrating along with Swifts
and Willow-Wrens, which were killed at the same time, and sent for
identification.

_Accipiter nisus_, Sparrow-Hawk.--September 23d, Seven Stones L.V., one
resting at 7 A.M.; 25th, Chickens Rock, one at lantern at 11 P.M.

_Falco æsalon_, Merlin.--Spring: February 14th, Langness, two passing
to N.E. at noon. March 29th, Langness, two going N. at 2 P.M.

Autumn.--August 16th, Langness, one at 3 P.M. September 26th, another
at Langness.

_Tinnunculus alaudarius_, Kestrel.--August 13th, Langness, two at 1.30
P.M.

"Hawks"--August 22d, Bideford, two: September 30th, two. October 20th,
South Bishop, one: November 2d, one; 11th, a large one.

"Falcon."--October 29th, Eddystone, "one alighted on the rock with a
Dotterel in its claws."

_Sula bassana_, Gannet.--August 12th, Langness, more than usual
observed. September 14th, ditto. From the beginning of September to
November 2d, observed passing the Bishop Bock. On the 1st of October,
scores going W. all day (Bishop Book).

_Ardea cinerea_, Heron.--Spring: March 20th, Langness, the Herons which
wintered in the neighbourhood departed.

Autumn.--August 2d, Langness, five appeared at 10 A.M. August 21st, one
at St Tudwal's Island.

"Geese."--October 3d, Cumberland, the first "Grey Geese" heard at
Rockliffe. October 16th, one "Wild Goose" at Langness; 17th, St Bees
and Bideford, "Grey Geese" observed. After this date, "Geese" became
abundant, and the dates are not of any significance.

_Bernicla leucopais_, Bernacle Goose.--Spring: April 2d, Cumberland, a
flock flew over Stanwix in a N.W. direction.

Autumn.--October 1st, Cumberland, Allonby; October 6th, heard at
Rockliffe; October 16th, arrived in great numbers on the Solway.

_Bernicla brenta_, Brent Goose.--November 14th, Cumberland, one shot at
Rockliffe.

_Mareca penelope_, Widgeon.--March 31st, Cumberland, about one hundred
at Ravenglass. September 5th, five on the Solway. October 6th, a great
many, along with Teal, at Rockliffe.

_Chaulelasmus streperus_, Gadwall.--January 3d, Cumberland, a female,
inland at Hethergill.

_Querquedula crecca_, Teal.--September 25th, St Bees, two. October
6th, Cumberland, many, along with Widgeon at Rockliffe. November 16th,
Godrevy, a flock.

_Clangula glaucion_, Golden-Eye.--Spring: Cumberland, many passing
Rockliffe along with Widgeon and Geese on night of April 17th; six at
Monkhill, April 29th.

Autumn.--October 22d, Cumberland, five on the Eden.

"Black Duck" [_Œdemia nigra_].--August 31st, Dee L.V., appeared, and
were observed in numbers throughout the winter.

_Mergus serrator_, Red-Breasted Merganser.--Merionethshire, stayed at
Penrhyndendraeth until May 9th, on which date a flock was seen.

_Perdix cinerea_, Partridge,--March 14th, St Tudwal's, one on the
island at 3 P.M.

_Coturnix communis_, Quail.--October 2d, Bideford, a female killed at
lantern at 11 P.M.

_Crex pratensis_, Landrail.--Spring: April 29th, Cumberland.

Autumn.--August 7th, Nash, two struck at 2 A.M., one killed. November
4th, Godrevy, one killed.

_Gallinula chloropus_, Moorhen.--October 9th, South Bishop, one at
lantern at 1 A.M.

_Charadrius pluvialis_, Golden Plover.--September 16th, Langness, six
at 7 P.M. October 12th, Menai, a flock. October 30th, Eddystone, a
flock at 7.30 P.M. November 11th, Nash, flocks, along with Lapwings all
day and night, twelve killed at lantern.

_Squatarola helvetica_, Grey Plover.--September 26th, Cumberland,
observed at Maryport.

_Vanellus vulgaris_, Lapwing.--Spring: February 15th, Langness, a flock
at 2 P.M. March 4th, three at Langness; 28th, seven at Seven Stones
L.V.; 31st, twenty at Langness.

Autumn.--October 3d, Langness, a flock. November 11th, Nash, along with
Golden Plover, nine killed. November 15th, Nash, a thousand at noon.
December 17th, Eddystone, several hundreds all night, many struck,
twenty-one caught. Appeared at Caldy Island on November 20th.

_Hæmatopus ostralegus_, Oyster-Catcher.--Spring: March 19th, Langness,
one. April 11th, four.

Autumn.--July 4th, Menai, "Sea-Pies and Puffins," at 5 P.M. August
30th, three at Langness.

_Phalaropus fulicarius_, Grey Phalarope.--Cumberland, one on
Derwentwater at end of September. October 8th, one at Silloth.

_Phalaropus hyperboreus_, Red-Necked Phalarope.--October 20th,
Cumberland, one at Kirkbride.

_Scolopax rusticula_, Woodcock.--September 30th, St Bees, two at 3 P.M.
October 16th, Skerries, "Woodcocks" between 12 P.M. and 4 A.M. November
1st, Eddystone, two at 11 P.M.; 2d, one at 1.45 A.M. Nov. 30th, St
Bees, one passed lantern at 4 A.M. December 25th, Nash, one passing
N.W. at 11 A.M.

_Gallinago cælestis_, Common Snipe.--Spring: March 13th, Langness, one.

Autumn: August 4th, South Stack, one killed at 11.30 P.M.; 5th,
Holyhead, one killed at 10 P.M. October 16th, Skerries, Snipes between
12 P.M. and 4 A.M. November 10th, observed at four stations between the
Isle of Man and South Devon, namely: Langness, one killed; Bishop Rock,
one killed at 8 P.M.; Eddystone, one killed at 8 P.M.; Start Point, one
at 6 P.M. November 12th, Langness, "some Snipe," along with Lapwings
and Curlews, at 11 P.M. December 25th, Nash, one at noon.

_Lymnocrytes gallinula_, Jack Snipe.--October 5th, Cumberland, at
Allonby.

_Tringa canutus_, Knot.--October 20th, Dee L.V., one killed. November
8th, Nash, one killed.

_Machetes pugnax_, Ruff.--September 5th, Cumberland; one shot out of a
small flock at Burgh. October 16th, another.

_Tringoides hypoleucos_, Common Sandpiper.--April 19th, Cumberland,
Gretna; April 22d, Carlisle. May 5th, two, Langness. November 9th, "one
Common Sandpiper killed" at Langness.

_Helodromas ochropus_, Green Sandpiper.--August 11th, Cumberland, first
seen this season.

_Tringa striata_, Purple Sandpiper.--October, on the Cumberland coast.

_Totanus calidris_, Redshank.--March 18th, four at Langness; and one on
the 27th.

_Totanus canescens_, Greenshank.--March 12th, Cumberland, several at
Ravenglass; 14th, one. August 10th, Cumberland, several at Rockliffe.

_Limosa lapponica_, Bar-tailed Godwit.--September 26th, Cumberland
coast, very abundant.

_Numenius phæopus_, Whimbrel.--Spring: Rockliffe Marsh, Cumberland,
April 25th, heard. May 15th, heard on the wing at 10 P.M. May 19th,
heard.

_Numenius arquata_, Curlew.--Spring: March 18th, Langness, a large
flock, but none seen after this date.

Autumn: July 24th, St Tudwal's, one hundred at 11 A.M. August 7th,
observed at the Dee L.V. At Menai on the 15th.

_Hydrochelidon nigra_, Black Tern.--April 26th, Cumberland, one at
Allonby.

_Sterna cantiaca_. Sandwich Tern.--April 4th, Cumberland, a pair at
Ravenglass.

_Rissa tridactyla_, Kittiwake.--July 10th, Chickens Rock, flocks of
Kittiwakes.

_Larus glaucus_, Glaucus Gull.--October 19th, Cumberland, one at Millom.

_Larus ridibundus_, Blackheaded Gull.--July 22d, Langness, flock at 7
P.M.

_Stercorarius_ ----, Skua.--September 4th, Cumberland, two on the
Eden. October 5th and 15th, one at the Bishop Rock, "very rarely seen
here."

_Procellaria pelagica_, Storm Petrel.--October 9th, South Bishop,
several at 1.30 A.M., flying round the lantern. November 9th,
Eddystone, one hilled, along with Thrushes, Blackbirds, etc., between
9 and 12 P.M.; 10th, Eddystone, one killed, along with a Snipe and
Redwing, between 7 and 12 P.M.; Dee L.V., one struck; 13th, South
Bishop, one killed at 5 A.M.; 15th, Carlisle, one.

_Procellaria leucorrhoa_, Leach's Petrel.--October 3d, Cumberland, one
at Bowness.

_Puffinus anglorum_, Manx Shearwater.--August 9th, Langness, "a large
number of Manx Petrels" at 3 P.M.

_Colymbus septentrionalis_, Redthroated Diver.--November 20th,
Cumberland, one at Silloth.

_Alca torda_, Razorbill.--April 14th, St Tudwal's, hundreds of Puffins,
Guillemots, and Razorbills arrived at sunrise. They left the island on
August 14th. Longships, numerous from August 20th to October 28th.

_Lomvia troile_, Guillemot.--March 12th, St Tudwal's, 200 arrived at
sunrise. Another arrival on April 14th. They left St Tudwal's on the
14th of August. Longships, observed from September 25th to October 29th.

_Fratercula arctica_, Puffin.--April 14th, St Tudwal's, hundreds
arrived at sunrise along with Guillemots and Razorbills, leaving on
August 14th. July 4th, Menai, Puffins at 5 A.M. Longships, observed
going S.W. between August 14th and October 26th.


General Remarks.

The Report for the West Coast of England and Wales, and the Isle of
Man, refers to the movements during the spring and autumn migrations of
about one hundred species.

The spring immigration commenced on the 25th of March with the advent
of the Swallow at the Bahama Bank light-vessel, and continued until the
15th of May, when "very many" Swallows appeared between 4 P.M. and 7
P.M. at Langness. A noteworthy incident of the vernal immigration was
the great rush of Wheatears observed at the Bahama Bank vessel and at
Langness on the night of the 13th of April, when many perished or were
captured.

The spring emigration did not escape attention, for on the night of the
20th of April the returning Fieldfares, Goldcrests, etc., were observed
at 11 P.M. at the Chickens Rock. Perhaps the continuous movements of
Thrushes and Blackbirds observed throughout February, and especially
between the 11th and 17th, are referable to this class of migrants.

The autumn emigration, so far as our summer visitants are concerned,
may be said to have been initiated with the appearance of the Cuckoo
at Langness on the 25th of July, and was prolonged until the 25th of
October, when the last Swallow was noted.

The first immigrant winter visitant from Northern Europe was the
Redwing, whose appearance at Carlisle was noted on the 20th of
September. The chief general movements which usually characterise
the southward autumnal passage were two in number, and affected the
stations along the entire coast from the Isle of Man and the Eddystone.
The first commenced on the 16th of October, and continued until the
20th. The second extended from the 8th to the 12th of November.

In connection with these general movements, which are so often--indeed,
we might say usually--participated in by a great variety of species
of very different orders seemingly seized by a simultaneous migratory
impulse, it would be, perhaps, well to consult the meteorological
record for an explanation of the phenomenon. Mr J. A. Allen tells us
that "birds discern approaching meteorological changes," and that
in the monthly weather reports of the United States Signal Service
Bureau reference is often made to the movements of birds. "From these
reports it appears that the southward migration of Geese and other
Waterfowl usually precedes, often only by a few hours, the approach of
heavy storms, and a sudden and very great reduction of temperature,
which they often wholly avoid by keeping in advance of the change."
It would seem probable, too, that birds await the approach of
favourable meteorological conditions, and then, having been detained
by unfavourable conditions, migrate _en masse_. Deeming that it would
be interesting in connection with the great movements during the
autumn of 1885, an examination of the weather reports issued by the
Meteorological Office has been made. The first of these, as we have
seen, commenced on the night of the 16th of October, and continued
until the night of the 20th. "The [weekly] Summary of Changes in the
Weather over the British Islands and their Neighbourhood[17] from the
11th to the 17th of October informs us that throughout this week the
pressure over our islands and their neighbourhood has been mainly
cyclonic; from the 11th to the 14th the type of gradient was northerly,
but on the 15th and 16th it was easterly. Two well-marked depressions
appeared in addition to the one which was passing away from us on the
morning of the 11th. The second of these depressions, which had become
a shallow subsidiary disturbance on the 15th over the south of France,
moved westward from our area during the 16th; and as this system passed
away, an anti-cyclonic "col" was formed over our islands, uniting an
anti-cyclone over France with another off our extreme western coasts.
With this anti-cyclone the cold northerly winds which had prevailed
changed, and on the 16th the weather became very fine over England,
the temperature rose, and the wind became a southeasterly breeze. The
summary for the 18th to the 24th of October informs us that "the
distribution of pressure over our islands and France was anti-cyclonic,
with light or moderate south-easterly and easterly winds, till the
20th, then cyclonic and complex, with northerly winds."

[Footnote 17: These reports and summaries refer not only to the British
Islands, but to North-Western Europe, from Bodo and Haparanda to
Corunna and Toulon. They are based upon numerous Continental returns
from the area indicated, as well as from all parts of our own islands.]

The second movement extended from the 8th to the 12th of November.
Regarding the meteorological conditions, the summaries tell us that
previous to the 8th the weather had been changeable and unsettled
generally, and the distribution of pressure mainly cyclonic, with
westerly, north-westerly, and southerly winds. From the 8th to 13th the
pressure system over North-Western Europe was anti-cyclonic, with light
(easterly in south, south-easterly in west, and southerly in the north)
breezes. On the 13th, however, a large and somewhat deep depression
advanced from the Atlantic, and spread quickly over all North-Western
Europe, with gradients for south-westerly and westerly winds.

Thus we had the two chief movements of the autumn ushered in by and
concurrent with anti-cyclonic conditions, preceded by and ceasing
with cyclonic depressions. These great barometric changes are also
frequently accompanied by equally great changes in temperature, and
this may be the cause of the mists which so commonly prevail on "a
migration night."

It would be well if a summary of all the sections of the reports could
be submitted to a competent meteorologist. This, it is thought, would
result in a few years in establishing a better understanding of the
relationship which exists between the weather and the great movements
of birds.

It cannot be said that the southerly flow of autumn migrants is evenly
distributed along the entire west coast of England, though such appears
to be commonly the case on the east coast. On the contrary, the
schedules again afford unmistakable evidence that the great majority of
these migrants are observed at stations south of Anglesey. But while
the north-west section of the coast is thus less favoured than the
rest, such is not the case with the Isle of Man, which comes in for an
important share of the west coast migratory movements. Now, since it
is a well-established fact that large masses of migrants from Northern
Europe, along with others from the Faröes, Iceland, and Greenland, pass
down the west coast of Scotland, whence many cross to Ireland, it seems
probable, from the evidence borne by the English West Coast returns,
that the majority of the remainder leave Scotland at some point on
the Wigtown coast, and pass to the west coast of Wales by way of the
Isle of Man, and thus avoid the English shores of the Irish Sea.[18]
Whether this is a reasonable and likely explanation, or not, the fact
remains that the schedules for the years 1884 and 1885[19] received
from the coasts of Flint, Cheshire, Lancashire, and Cumberland--and
they are among the most faithfully kept--make it evident that during
those seasons comparatively few of the ordinary migrants were observed
there, and that the great general movements did not affect them in any
considerable degree.

[Footnote 18: The remarks do not apply to migrants among the _Limicolæ_
and _Anseres_, which, as a rule, religiously follow coast lines, and
which are abundantly represented on the Solway and coasts of Cumberland
and Lancashire.]

[Footnote 19: The scarcity or entire absence of migratory birds at St
Bees is remarked upon ill the Reports for 1880 and 1881.]

The migratory movements of such partially resident species as the
Redbreast, Hedge Sparrow, Wren, Greenfinch, Sparrow, Bullfinch, Yellow
Hammer, and others are recorded.

Of the rarer and more interesting species included in the Report, the
Black Redstart, White Wagtail, Gadwall, Red-Necked and Grey Phalaropes,
Ruff, Black Tern, Glaucus Gull, and Leach's Petrel may be mentioned.

As an unusual species to observe at the lantern, we may allude to the
occurrence of the Moorhen (_Gallinula chloropus_) at the South Bishop,
a locality indicating that the bird must have been migrating.

The scarcity of the Woodcock, Goldcrest, and Short-Eared Owl is worthy
of note. This is the more remarkable in the case of the Woodcock,
since it occurred in almost unprecedented numbers on the east coast of
England.

                                                       W. Eagle Clarke.




IRISH COAST.


The number of light stations returning schedules was only one less than
in 1885, although four schedules less were sent out.

There was no light shown at the Tuskar Rock--the best Irish
station--between from June 1st to November 20th, but since that date a
more powerful light has been exhibited.

The great importance of forwarding a leg and wing of at least one
specimen of each species killed, cannot be too strongly impressed upon
on the light-keepers. Unless the birds are correctly identified, the
value of this inquiry is materially diminished, and ornithologists may
refuse to accept the statements of the observers.

In the schedules sent out in the spring of 1886, the request to forward
the legs and wings of birds was conspicuously printed on the top of
each schedule. Mr Edward M'Carron, who had already proved himself a
most intelligent observer at the Tearaght Rock (removed to Mine Head
in the autumn), has been the largest contributor of specimens, and his
careful notes prove the interest taken in this inquiry.

Anticipatory of the report for the spring of 1886, it may be mentioned
that several rare species have occurred, which would probably have
passed under another name, were it not for the distribution of six
copies of "Morris's British Birds," with coloured plates, and the
production of specimens. We trust the Commissioners of Irish Lights
will distribute six additional copies of Morris in the present year. We
believe these volumes are greatly appreciated, and that in placing them
in their annual list of books to be purchased for the light-keepers, a
wise selection has been made.

No specimen of the Greenland Falcon or Snowy Owl was observed in 1885.
The former species cannot, therefore, be regarded as a more than an
accidental winter visitor to the West Coast; and only one specimen of
the Snowy Owl was recorded since these observations were commenced.
Thrushes, including probably Redwings, were noted in considerable
numbers about the lights, over a range of sixty miles on the Wexford
and Wicklow coasts, between the 11th and 15th February. There was no
hard frost at the time. These lights are all seven to ten miles from
shore. During the second week in April, at several stations. Thrushes
are recorded. The great autumn rush took place between the 6th and
10th November, and a smaller one between the 17th and 20th October.
Blackbirds accompanied the Thrushes, but in smaller numbers.

"A Blackbird with a white breast" was observed at Mine Head from the
8th to the 10th December. A further description given of this bird
shows it may have been a Ring Ouzel. The Hedge Sparrow seems to be
resident in small numbers during the winter on the Tearaght Rock, nine
miles off the Kerry coast, and possibly it breeds there. No clear
indication of the migration of the Robin has yet been shown on the
Irish Coast. The records of its occurrence are few and scattered. The
Black Redstart was recorded at several stations in the southern half
of Ireland; specimens were forwarded from Mine Head, the Skelligs, and
Rockabill. It is apparently a regular winter visitor to the Skelligs
and Tearaght, generally appearing in October and November. With one
exception (in February) there is no record of its occurrence during any
other month. The autumn migration of the Goldcrest was the smallest
yet recorded, but on the 12th and 13th April a spring movement was
apparent. As usual, the Starling is the best marked migrant, occurring
at almost every station. There is no record yet of the Chough having
been seen on the east coast by the light-keepers. The Magpie is
apparently not a migratory bird in Ireland. The observations on the
Cuckoo and Corncrake are few, when it is remembered they are well-known
and regular visitors. There is, so far, no record of the Cuckoo having
struck the lanterns, and but one instance of the Corncrake so doing. It
has been stated as an "undoubted fact" (Yarrell, 4th ed., vol. iii.,
p. 324), by Mr Howard Saunders, that the Woodcock often makes its
appearance on the south and west coasts of Ireland before it is noticed
in the north and east. The light-keepers' schedules do not contradict
this statement; but their observations are not yet sufficiently
numerous to confirm it beyond a doubt. The northward movement of the
Whimbrel (May Bird or young Curlew) has been well marked every year.
On the return journey they are either confounded with the Curlew,
or if they take the same route, they may travel at a higher level
without whistling, and thus escape the notice of the light-keepers.
The schedules from the Skelligs and Tearaght have always a special
interest, these rocks being the greatest breeding-places of sea birds
on the Irish Coast. Mr M'Carron estimates the number of Stormy Petrels
on the Tearaght in July at six or seven thousand. The changes of
plumage in the Razorbill has been the source of much comment by Mr
M'Carron. The sudden and almost complete disappearance of the so-called
"Black-billed Auk," and the reappearance of the Razorbill in breeding
plumage in a short interval, show that when the old birds arrive to
breed, the young birds of the previous year leave the neighbourhood of
the Tearaght, and probably go out to sea.

A young bird, 8 inches long, and still carrying a few whitish downy
feathers at the back of the neck, sent up by Mr M'Carron, and obtained
on August 1st, has the chin and throat _black_. An older bird, killed
on January 13th, has the chin and throat white. In Yarrell, vol. iv.,
p. 60, the chin and throat of a bird a week old is said to be _white_;
and Seebohm says the young in down have the underparts _greyish white_.

In the report for 1884, it is stated that no Gannets perched on the
Little Skellig after October 20th, and in the present report February
28th is given as the date of their reappearance on this well-known
Irish breeding station.

The most interesting stations are those on small islands or rocks, or
light-vessels at a considerable distance from shore; and the regular
occurrence of so many land birds of apparently weak powers of flight
around these lanterns is a matter of surprise to those unacquainted
with the facts of migration.

We believe this inquiry has contributed not a little to enlighten
the general public as to the movements of birds, some of which were
partially known to ornithologists, and others suspected; but the
accumulated data of the observers (making all reasonable allowances for
errors in identification), are sufficient to satisfy the most sceptical
of the powers of flight and endurance possessed by many small birds,
and the wide range of the migratory impulse.

An effort has been made this year to shorten the Irish report, but
the number of birds which strike the lights is comparatively small,
compared with the large numbers arriving on the coasts of Great
Britain. It is therefore all the more necessary to give the records in
detail, in order to arrive at any general and trust-worthy conclusion.

To the Commissioners of Irish Lights, to the secretary, Mr Owen
Armstrong; and to Captain Boxer, R.N., we continue to be under many
obligations. It is, however, to the light-keepers themselves we are
most indebted, since they have gratuitously placed at our disposal much
of their leisure, and evinced an interest in this inquiry which could
scarcely have been anticipated. Some of their names must be specially
mentioned in connection with the occurrence of rare birds in the report
for 1886, which promises to be an interesting one.

                                                    Alexander G. More.
                                                    Richard M. Barrington.

                                              Miles
                                              from
       List of Light-Stations.        Sp. Au. Shore.  Name of Observers.

   1.  Fastnet, Co. Cork,              x   o    8     James Walsh.
   2.  Galley Head, Cork,              o   x   --     John Kelly.
   3.  Old Head, Kinsale, Cork,        o   o   --     _No reply._
   4.  Mine Head, Waterford,           o   x   --   { Hugh J. Dugan and
                                                    {   Edward M'Carron.
   5.  Dungarvan, Waterford,           x   x   --     Wm. Higginbotham.
   5. *Coningbeg Lt.-ship, Wexford,    x   x   10   { Patrick Cullen and
                                                    {   William Clydesdale.
   6.  Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, do.,     x   x    4   { Michael Doyle and
                                                    {   Charles H. M'Cabe.
   7.  Tuskar Rock,           do.,     x   x    7   { Richard Hamilton
                                                    {   and Patrick D'Arcy.
   8.  Arklow Sth. Lt.-ship, Wicklow,  x   x    7   { Patrick Clancy and
                                                    {   Alfred B. Wall.
   8. *Arklow North Lt.-ship, do.,     x   x    8     William Daly.
  10.  Kish Bank Lt.-ship, Dublin,     x   x    7   { John Pinston and
                                                    {   Thomas Cooney.
  11.  Howth Baily, Dublin,            o   o   --     _No reply._
  12.  Rockabill, Dublin,              x   x    5     Joseph Hammond.
  13.  Copeland (Mew) Island, Down,    x   x    3     John O'Donnell.
  14.  Maidens, Antrim,                x   x    5     Michael Barry.
  15.  Rathlin, Antrim,                x   x    6     John A. Murray.
  16.  Innishtrahull, Donegal,         x   o    6     R. Phelan.
  17.  Dunree Head, Donegal,           x   o   --     John Stapleton.
  18.  Lough Swilly, Donegal,         --   x   --     James Keenan.
  19.  Tory Island, Donegal,           x   o    9     Henry Stocker.
  20.  Arranmore, Donegal,             x   x    5     Henry Williams.
  21.  Rathlin O'Birne, Donegal,       o   x    2     John Scallan.
  22.  Killybegs, Donegal,             x   x   --     Joseph Hill.
  23.  Oyster Island, N. Sligo,        o  --    1     _No reply._
  24.  Broadhaven, Mayo,               x   x   --     Patrick Keenan.
  25.  Eagle Island, E., Mayo,         o   x    2     Daniel Hawkins.
  26.  Eagle Island, W., Mayo,        --  --    2     No schedule sent.
  27.  Blackrock, Mayo,                x   x    9   { John Redmond, J.
                                                    {   Young, R. Lyons,
                                                    {   and Edward Rohu.
  28.  Blacksod Point, Mayo,           x   o   --     Robt. W. Redmond.
  29.  Clare Island, Mayo,             x   o    4     G. H. Brownell.
  30.  Slyne Head, N., Galway,         x   o    3     Robert Tyrell.
  31.  Slyne Head, S., Galway,        --  --    3     No schedule sent.
  32.  Arran Island, N., Galway,       x   x    9     Thomas Fortune.
  33.  Straw Island, Galway,           x   x    9     Charles Boyle.
  34.  Arran Island, S., Galway,      --  --    6     No schedule sent.
  37.  Tearaght, Kerry,                x   x    9   { Edward M'Carron
                                                    {   and Francis Ryan.
  38.  Valentia, Kerry,                x   x   --     Joseph Williams.
  39.  Skelligs, Kerry,                x   x    9     Thomas Kerley.
  40.  Dursey Island, Cork,           --  --    ½     No schedule sent.

  Abbreviations:

    o = No reply. x = Schedule returned partly or wholly filled,
    Sp. = Spring, 34 schedules sent out; replies received, 27.
    Au. = Autumn, 34 schedules sent out; replies received, 25.


_Legs, Wings, etc., Received._

  _Mine Head_,    Wing of Starling, shot 11th December.
      "           Wing and Leg of Widgeon, found killed 13th December.
      "           Black Redstart, in flesh, shot 18th November.
  _Coningbeg Lt.-ship_  Leg and wing of Titlark, found on deck, 6th October.
  _Tuskar_,       Two Corncrakes, received in flesh; shot on rock May 13th.
  _Rockabill_,    Black Redstart (old male), in flesh; shot November 21st.
  _Killybegs_,    Wing of Woodcock, killed striking, 2 A.M., 18th
                         November.
  _Eagle Island_, Leg and wing. Redwing, killed striking 16th October.
      "                 "       Blackbird,        "          "
  _Tearaght_,     Leg and wing of Wheatear, August 27th.
      "                 "         Stormy Petrel (young), struck August 5th.
      "                 "         Swallow found dead. May 22d.
      "           Skin of Thrush, 28th January.
      "           Leg and wing. Rock Pipit, 10th August.
      "           Wing of Curlew, 20th March.
      "           Skin of young Razorbill of year, 1st August.
  _Skelligs_,     Black Redstart, in flesh, shot 18th November.


_List of Birds Noticed._

                           PAGE                                PAGE
  Hawks,                    139      Jackdaw,                   156
  Owl,                      140      Magpie,                    156
  "Flycatchers,"            140      Swallow,                   157
  Missel Thrush,            141      Martin,                    158
  Thrush,                   141      Swift,                     158
  Redwing                   142      Cuckoo,                    158
  Fieldfare,                142      Pigeons,                   158
  Blackbird,                143      Partridge,                 159
  Ring Ouzel,               144      Corncrake,                 159
  Hedge Sparrow,            144      Water Rail,                159
  Robin,                    144      Water Hen,                 159
  Black Redstart,           144      Golden Plover,             160
  "Blackcap" (Stonechat),   145      Green Plover,              160
  "Stonechat" (Wheatear),   145      Sea Pie,                   160
  "Grasshopper Warbler,"    146      Woodcock,                  161
  Whitethroat,              146      Snipe,                     161
  Chiff-Chaff,              146      "Sea Larks,"               162
  Golden-crested Wren,      146      Redshank,                  162
  Wren                      147      Greenshank,                162
  "Tits,"                   147      Curlew,                    162
  Wagtail,                  147      Whimbrel,                  163
  Titlark,                  148      Terns,                     164
  Larks,                    148      Gulls,                     164
  Snow Bunting,             150      Manx Shearwater,           165
  Yellow Hammer,            150      Stormy Petrel,             166
  Chaffinch,                150      Razorbill,                 166
  "Mountain Finch,"         151      Guillemot,                 167
  Sparrow,                  151      Puffin,                    167
  Greenfinch,               151      Great Northern Diver,      168
  Redpole,                  151      Cormorant,                 169
  Linnets,                  152      Gannet,                    169
  Twite,                    152      Heron,                     171
  Starling,                 153      Geese,                     171
  Chough,                   155      Ducks,                     172
  Raven,                    155      Merganser,                 172
  Hooded Crow,              155      Birds not identified,      173
  Rook,                     156



General Remarks of Light-Keepers.

_Galley Head._--Autumn: No birds were killed striking the lantern
during the two years I have been at this station.--John Kelly.

_Mine Head._--Autumn: A pair of Ravens and Peregrine Falcons, and
several pairs of Choughs, breed in the cliffs close to the lighthouse.
A large number of Cormorants also build here, and Gulls on several
islets close to the shore.--Hugh J. Dugan.

_Tuskar Rock._--Autumn: There was no light shown in lighthouse from
June 1st to November 20th, which accounts for the apparent scarcity of
some migrants at this station.--Richard Hamilton.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--On the night of November 9th, several birds
of various kinds about lantern; many killed; some fell on deck, and a
large number overboard.--Patrick Clancy.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--May 3d, large flocks of land-birds about
lantern at night.--William Daly.

_South Maidens._--In January and February few birds seen, except
Seapies, Gulls, and Shearwaters. From June 21st to 16th July no birds
save Gannets, Gulls, and Seapies.--M. Barry.

_Innishtrahull._--I have only observed birds about the lantern on dark
nights, and in thick misty weather.--R. Phelan.

_Lough Swilly._--Birds are scarce here--not a single one has struck
lantern since I came.--James Keenan.

_Killybegs._--Seagulls and Curlews are here all the year. Lapwing's
nest close by. Cormorants and Pigeons breed in cliff's.--J. Hill.

_Eagle Island, E._--Gulls were scarce, and Gannets, "Sea Parrots, and
Puffins" were only to be seen in flight, which was invariably to the
west--the Gannets in a long extended line, singly or in pairs, and the
Sea Parrots in flocks of twenty to fifty, flying low. There are two
Titlarks, two Wrens, and about ten Sandlarks on island at present (1st
January 1886). A few of the last-named breed here, also the Titlarks,
and possibly the Wrens, as there are some old walls into which I have
seen them hop for shelter; but I Have never noticed them in spring or
summer.--Daniel Hawkins.

_Clare Island._--The sea-birds (Gulls, Puffins, Guillemots, and
Cormorants) continued to arrive from 1st of April to 1st of June to
breed. They were not as numerous as last year. All left before August
15th, except the Cormorants and a few Royal Gulls. Eagles always remain
on island.--G. H. Brownell.

_Slyne Head, North._--The number of sea-birds is chiefly regulated by
the feeding. There is a greater number for the past two months (June
and July) than has been the case for the past five years.--Robert
Tyrell.

_Arran Island, N._--Puffins, Gulls, Gannets, Curlew, Seapie,
Cormorants, and Sandlarks come and go according to the state of the
sea--if wild, none, and _vice versa_.--Thomas Fortune.

_Straw Island._--Spring: The number of birds were few during the
spring. The Lark, Hedge Sparrow, Robin, Wagtail, and Linnet are
remarkable for their total absence this year, though numerous in the
springs of 1883 and 1884. Autumn: A great scarcity of sea-birds of
all kinds, especially the Gannet. Land-birds--_i.e._, "Crows," Rooks,
Larks, Starlings, Thrushes--plentiful, especially young Starlings,
Thrushes, and Blackbirds. From 13th November to 17th November they came
in rushes during severe weather.--Charles Boyle.

_Tearaght._--Birds remaining September 1st, Choughs, Hooded Crows,
Wheatear, Wrens, Rock Pipit, Peregrine, Kittiwake (old and young),
Royal Gulls, Herring Gulls (old and young). Cormorants, and
Oyster-Catcher.--Edward M'Carron.

_Skelligs._--In February, Gannets, Cormorants, Kittiwakes (mostly
young). Herring Gulls, a few Black-Backed do., and flocks of
"the Black-Billed Auk (young Razorbill--R. M. B.) fishing round
rock.--Thomas Kerley.


Hawks.

_Fastnet._--October 16th, one at 5 A.M.; October 20th, one; November
9th, two; 10th, one; 13th, one.

_Mine Head._--October 5th, a Light-brown Hawk, and on several other
occasions. 11th December, a small Blue Hawk. 8th January 1886, saw one
capture a Redwing; it was a small Hawk, and unable to carry it away.

_Dungarvan._--March 15th, one Falcon Hawk; Nov. 18th, one.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 19th, one Sparrowhawk; 28th, two Hawks.
September 26th and October 9th, one Sparrowhawk seen.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--September 11th, two Hawks; October 28th,
one.

_Tuskar Rock._--May 27th, one Hawk.

_Rockabill._--Hawks noted April 1st, April 13th, and May 23d.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 9th, one.

_Rathlin Island._--April 18th, two Falcon Hawks all day.

_Arranmore._--May 5th, two going S.E.; September 29th, three.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--August 9th, two Hawks. Have been here two years.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 24th, a small Brown Hawk; saw him seize
small bird. October 17th and December 21st, one and two seen.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--Falcon noted June 1st and August 11th. Sparrowhawk
alighted on Rock August 15th. October 23d and December 28th, one Falcon.

_Arran Island, N._--One or two Brown Hawks at intervals during June.

_Tearaght._--March 12th, Grey Hawk (white predominating). April 3d,
one large Brown Hawk (I don't think it was the Peregrine). March 22d,
Sparrowhawk several times this month and occasionally throughout the
year. On March 6th a Peregrine pounced on a Royal Gull while flying,
and knocked it into the sea, from which it could not rise.

_Skelligs._--Two Kestrels on rock all September; they appeared about
15th August. A pair of Peregrines build here. Kestrels during October
and November.


Owl.

_Fastnet._--November 11th, one Dark-brown Owl (golden colour on breast
and wings) killing small birds during night. Rush of Larks, Thrushes,
and Starlings.

_Mine Head._--October 13th, one in twilight, appeared white. November
15th, one seen in daytime.

_Rockabill._--April 13th, an Owl seen.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 10th, an Owl.


"Flycatchers."

_Rockabill._--15th and 16th, Flycatchers; 21st, a large number; May
9th, some.


Missel Thrush.

_Mine Head._--December 10th, several during this month.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 13th, one "Jay."


Thrush (probably Redwing also).

_Fastnet._--March 15th, two around light at midnight; gloomy, wind
E.; 16th, one. April 12th, two "Mountain Thrushes" at noon; wind
E.N.E., light. October 13th, one at midnight killed striking; clear,
wind light. 20th, a great number of Thrushes and "Mountain" Thrushes
(probably Redwings--R. M. B.) all night; nine killed striking; hazy,
wind light, N.E. November 7th, 8th, and 9th, great numbers of Thrushes
at night; several killed striking; wind light S., overcast. 11th,
Thrushes all night; five killed; overcast, wind S.E., light. 12th, five
all day on rock.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 5th, two about light 11 P.M.

_Tuskar Rock._--February 13th and 14th, Thrushes constantly striking
from 1 A.M. to 7 A.M.; a great number killed; wind fresh S.W., fog.
April 15th, one Thrush struck; rain.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 11th, three killed striking at
midnight; foggy; found dead on deck. 14th, from 6 P.M. until midnight
Thrushes about lantern; clear. October 20th, flock at 3 A.M. about
lantern; some struck, fell on deck; cloudy, wind fresh N.W. November
6th and 8th, Thrushes at midnight about lantern; many struck, some fell
on deck, others overboard; hazy.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--January 25th, Thrushes about lantern.
February 10th, three killed striking; 15th, two do.; March 4th, six do.
November 16th, several all night; 22d, 23d, and 24th, about lantern;
four killed on 24th.

_Kish Light-ship._--October 8th, one killed striking; stormy, clear.
Noted also on October 9th, 26th, and 31st. On November 6th, flocks from
6 to 11.30 A.M. going N.W.; wind S.W. 8th, several flocks; 10th, two
killed striking; clear.

_Rockabill._--January 19th, Thrushes at night about lantern; several
struck also on February 24th. April 16th and July 1st, about lantern.
October 18th, 21st, 23d, November 6th and 8th to 10th, large numbers
passed; many struck, several killed.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--April 8th, Thrushes about lantern. November
3d, one disabled; rain. 9th, six killed striking.

_Innishtrahull._--January 16th, 23d, 24th, and 27th, small flocks of
Blackbirds and Mountain Thrushes around lantern; about eighteen killed.

_Tory Island._--April 14th, three killed striking 4 A.M.

_Arranmore._--October 15th, one seen.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--August 26th, four killed 8 P.M. These birds often
strike. Always on island in autumn.

_Killybegs._--October 19th, 11 P.M., one killed striking; misty.
November 1st, 1 A.M., another; two seen in morning.

_Broadhaven._--October 13th, one killed striking. No birds were ever
known to strike this light before, as it is dark towards the land.

_Eagle Island, E._--October 17th, 2 to 3 A.M., three killed striking;
19th, one seen.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 6th and 7th, Thrushes about all day.

_Arran Island, N._--November 11th, six Thrushes killed striking 11.30
P.M.; misty.

_Straw Island._--November 19th, forty going N.W.

_Tearaght._--October 19th, several arrived on rock.

_Skelligs._--October 16th, a few Thrushes on rock; wind N.E., gale,
rainy. 17th, several on rock to-day; wind S.E., fresh. 23d, several
Common Thrushes and another species having the back of a slatish
colour, with a yellow hue on the back near the tail. 31st, Thrushes
on rock. Several during November frequented the rock. December 8th,
"Thrushes, Common Fieldfare, and Redwings since the 7th."


"Redwing."

_Mine Head._--November 11th, Redwing caught on glass. Small birds
flying through rays all night. Redwing plentiful all winter.

_Tearaght._--January 28th, one found near lighthouse. March 15th, two
or three observed up to middle of this month.

_Skelligs._--December 8th, one struck 11.30 P.M.; died in night.


Fieldfare.

_Mine Head._--December 8th, observed here.

_Rockabill._--November 26th, Fieldfares all night; several killed
striking.

_Eagle Island, E._--October 17th, one killed striking.

_Tearaght._--December 15th, about fifty remained for three weeks.


Blackbird.

_Fastnet._--October 16th, one.

_Mine Head._--October 30th, one caught (male); previous night stormy.
November 10th, one caught on glass; misty, wind E., fresh.

_Dungarvan._--November 9th, one (female) struck 2 A.M., not killed;
misty.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 18th, one seen.

_Tuskar Rock._--February 13th and 14th, Blackbirds constantly striking
from 1 A.M. to 7 A.M.; a great number killed; wind fresh S.W., fog.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 11th, two killed striking at
midnight; fog; found dead on deck. 12th, two killed striking; gloomy.
13th, four about light; 15th, one killed striking; 16th, Blackbirds
from 6 P.M. until midnight about lantern; clear. November 6th and 8th,
many about lantern at night, some killed; hazy.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 15th, four killed striking. March
4th, four do. November 15th, two killed striking; 22d and 23d, some
about lantern all night.

_Kish Light-ship._--November 7th, one killed striking; clear.

_Rockabill._--October 18th, 21st, November 8th, 9th, and 10th, numbers
passed on these nights; many killed.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--March 8th, two killed striking. April 18th,
about forty near station. November 7th, three killed striking 10 P.M.;
clear. December 31st, one hundred Blackbirds about island.

_Arranmore._--September 11th, November 3d, and December 9th, one to
three noted.

_Killybegs._--October 31st, two seen; wind strong N.W. November 3d and
29th, another.

_Eagle Island, E._--October 19th, one seen.

_Straw Island._--November 13th, numbers of Blackbirds going N.W.

_Tearaght._--March 15th, one, and up to April 1st. October 19th,
several arrived on rock.

_Skelligs._--March 17th, two Blackbirds on rock. October 16th, several
arrived; a gale from N.E. 17th, several; 31st, Blackbirds seen. Several
during November.


Ring Ouzel.

_Mine Head._--December 8th, "A Blackbird with a white breast," and also
on the 9th and 10th--probably the same bird on each occasion. Not seen
afterwards. "I was quite close to to this bird; it was very black,
except the white breast, which was very distinct. It did not extend
round back of neck."

_Skelligs._--April 9th, one on rock; wind S.E., strong.


Hedge Sparrow.

_Tuskar Rock._--May 25th, five "Dunnocks" on the rock. August 31st and
September 3d and 12th, one or two "Dunnocks" seen.

_Tearaght._--March 1st, a few remained all the spring. I am not sure if
they remained during the summer.


Robin.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--November 29th, one Robin flew on deck; wind
fresh, S.

_Rockabill._--March 3d, Robins remaining.

_Rathlin Island._--December 3d, three Redbreasts all day.

_Killybegs._--October 4th and 14th, one seen.

_Valentia._--Noted in May, September, October, November, and December.

_Skelligs._--November 9th, one Robin. The first seen since my arrival
in April 1883; wind S., strong.


Black Redstart.

_Mine Head._--November 9th, one; 13th, one shot; 18th, one shot.
[Received in flesh.--R. M. B.] December 23d, one.

_Dungarvan._--November 7th, one Redstart. Remained three days. Rare.

_Rockabill._--Nov. 21st, one shot. [Received in flesh.--R. M. B.]

_Tearaght._--February 1st, two remained about a fortnight. November
17th, one Redstart on rock; 24th, another, 28th, five remained a
fortnight.

_Skelligs._--October 17th, four Black Redstarts on rock; 19th,
twenty--wind N.E., fresh, misty--"observed one with a white breast and
belly;" 31st, a few seen; November 18th, Black Redstart shot; specimen
sent. [Received.--R. M. B.]


"Blackcap" (probably Stonechat).

_Mine Head._--January 10th, 1886, I have seen this little bird
frequently all the winter.

_Tuskar Rock._--May 25th, one "Whinchat."

_Killybegs._--May 11th, two "Blackcaps" seen.


"Stonechat" (Wheatear).

_Fastnet._--March 15th, several about light at midnight--gloomy, wind
E.--three killed. April 10th, several about rock all day; wind N. May
12th, a flock at 8 A.M. going N.E.; wind W. October 20th, several about
light, two killed striking; hazy, wind light. November 13th, eleven
seen, all died on rock.

_Dungarvan._--March 19th, two seen.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 13th, one Wheatear killed striking;
light haze. April 21st, two killed striking. March 16th, one
"Stonechat." April 8th, one Wheatear killed, 4 A.M., clear.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--May 12th, one rested on ship, and died
shortly afterwards.

_Tuskar Rock._--'March 16th, "Blackcap and Wheatear" alighted on
rock--first this spring; wind light, N.W. April 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th,
and 16th, one to two Wheatears noticed. August 8th, 28th, and 30th, one
to three Wheatears.

_South Maidens._--About middle of April, a considerable number of
"Wheatears and Stonechatters" alighted on rock for some time, and then
flew N.W.

_Rathlin Island._--March 8th, three "Stonechats." April 13th, seven
Wheatears struck at midnight--three killed. April 14th, three at
midnight, caught one. April 30th, "Stonechats" breed here. May 1st,
three Wheatears.

_Innishtrahull._--April 13th, nine "Stonechats" on island.

_Arranmore._--April 2d, Four "Stonechats;" 12th, eight. May 30th, nine.
September 8th, four at 10 P.M.--wind strong, W.--one killed striking.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--August 12th, "Stonechatters" all day. September
14th, caught one under a stone.

_Killybegs._--May 4th, five or six Stonechats.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 6th, two on island.

_Tearaght._--March 14th, first observed. About a dozen on island all
the summer. I saw a nest with five young ones three feet in, under a
rock.

_Skelligs._--March 11th, two Wheatears, first appearance; wind S.E.,
strong; 14th, several; wind S.E.


"Grasshopper Warbler" (probably Sedge Warbler).

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 13th, twenty "Grasshopper Warblers," 4
A.M.--wind light, N.W.--one killed striking, clear.


Whitethroat.

_Tuskar Rock._--May 12th, Whitethroats constantly striking, midnight to
3 A.M.; misty. Thirty-five killed. August 31st, one seen.


Chiff-Chaff (probably Willow Wren also).

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 17th, one died on deck, tired out; 19th,
one; 20th, one killed, fog; 30th, one.

_Tuskar Rock._--April 12th, one killed striking. The first this year;
13th, 14th, 15th, and 17th, Chiff-Chaffs noted; 22d, constantly
striking all night, scores killed; wind strong, squally, cloudy. May
12th, constantly striking, midnight to 3 A.M., twenty-three killed;
misty, wind light, N.E. August 30th and September 3d, one or two seen.


Golden-Crested Wren.

_Dungarvan._--November 4th, one struck 2 A.M., not killed; gloomy.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 7th, two "Fire-Crests" on ship.

_Tuskar Rock._--April 13th, the first Goldcrest this season.

_Rockabill._--April 7th, Golden-Crested Wren seen.

_South Maidens._--April 12th, one "Robin (Golden-Crested)" struck
lantern 11 P.M., not killed.

_Rathlin Island._--April 13th, thirteen at midnight. Five killed
striking; 14th, five struck, caught two at midnight. The Goldcrest did
not put in an appearance in the winter season this year.

Killybegs--November 11th, 5 am., one caught at glass; gloomy; wind
fresh, S.E.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 7th, 7 P.M., two Golden-Crested Wrens, one
killed striking; fog and rain.


Wren.

_Fastnet._--October 20th, two about light; hazy. November 13th, one
seen, died on rock.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 12th, two.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--April 2d, one Wren seen.

_Tuskar Rock._--April 13th, one Common Wren struck.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--April 13th, a Wren flying about ship.

_Rockabill._--April 13th, Wrens. September 21st, ditto. October 21st,
ditto.

_Innishtrahull._--March 16th and 19th, Common Wrens about lantern, two
killed striking.

_Eagle Island, E._--October 27th, two Wrens; still on island 26th
December 1885.

_Skelligs._--Wrens are resident. December--The Wren is more plentiful
the last four months.


"Tits."

_Mine Head._--December 9th, one Blue Tit shot. Several seen about.

_Tuskar Rock._--March 16th, "Tits and other small birds" passing in
threes and fours.

_Killybegs._--December 5th, two "Blackcaps" seen. "The Blackcaps are
either _Parus major_ or _Parus palustris_; I am aware they are not the
Blackcap Warbler."--Joseph Hill.


Wagtail.

_Mine Mead._--December 8th, one shot.

_Dungarvan._--November 27th, five very dark Wagtails.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 15th, two Pied Wagtails going N.

_Tuskar Rock._--March 16th, one Grey Wagtail alighted. September 28th,
one.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--April 28th, some Wagtails passed N.W.

_Rockabill._--April 1st, Wagtail noted. October 5th, some.

_South Maidens._--April 14th, two Wagtails.

_Rathlin Island._--September 17th, Pied Wagtail.

_Arranmore._--June 29th, six Wagtails all day. September 3d, three.
January 2d, one.

_Killybegs._--December 5th, a Pied Wagtail.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 6th, one seen; 21st, one.

_Arran Island, N._--July 1st, one. October 14th, two.

_Straw Island._--July 24th, one Grey Wagtail.

_Skelligs._--March 15th, one stayed five days; wind S.E., strong.
August 19th, two Grey Wagtails. September 4th, four on rock; remained
until 10th. A gale from S.W.


Titlarks.

_Fastnet._--November 7th and 8th, numbers about light; overcast.

_Tuskar Rock._--March 7th, Titlarks passing W., first this spring.
April 17th, a number about rock, September 28th, Rock Pipits.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 16th, five killed striking; 23d,
passing N.W. all day. March 15th, a flock going N.W. April 17th,
Titlarks going N.W.

_Kish Light-ship._--April 9th, several flocks going N.W.; 24th, a
flock. May 1st, three about deck all day.

_Rockabill._--March 3d, seen all day; breed on rock.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--April 14th, six Titlarks struck; four killed.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 6th, two seen.

_Straw Island._--March 23d, eight Field-Larks (small) remain here.
September 7th, two.

_Skelligs._--Titlarks are resident.


Larks.

_Fastnet._--October 12th, two at midnight, one killed; clear, wind
light, N.E. 20th, great number all night, seven killed striking; hazy,
wind light, N.E. November 7th and 8th, great numbers all night, eleven
killed striking; overcast, wind light, S. 9th, numbers at night;
overcast. 11th, Larks too numerous to count all night, twelve killed
striking; overcast, wind S.E.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 12th, several Larks during night
about ship. 14th and 17th, one. March 13th and 14th, four to twelve
going N.W.; wind E. and N.E. 23d, one. September 18th, four going W.
September 26th, a "Ground Lark." October 6th, "Ground Lark" got dead on
deck; wind fresh, N.W. [Leg and wing of Titlark received.--R. M. B.]
7th, twelve going N.W.; wind N., fresh.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--December 18th, odd Larks passed N. January
19th and 20th, eighty-six Larks passed.

_Tuskar Rock._--February 15th, ten killed striking; overcast, gloomy.
March 5th, Larks going W.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--October 15th and 18th, flocks going N.W.
November 8th, Skylarks about lantern at night; hazy.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--January 25th, some Larks about
lantern--midnight. February 4th, a flock going N.W. February 10th,
four killed striking. 15th, two killed striking. 16th, three killed
striking. 23d, flocks going N.W. all day; wind strong, S.W. March 5th,
Larks passed. April 17th, three Skylarks killed striking. November 1st,
2d, and 29th, Larks noted.

_Kish Light-ship._--April 4th, flock going N.W. 14th, several Skylarks
about lantern, one killed striking. 15th, passing S.W. during day, two
killed striking at night; clear. Oct. 22d, two about ship. 30th, a
flock going N.W. Nov. 9th, two about ship.

_Rockabill._--February 24th and April 14th, Larks about light, several
struck. October 5th, Larks. 21st, all day and night. November 6th, all
night, numbers killed.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--March 14th, about twenty struck, six killed,
11 P.M.; wind S., overcast. May 19th, about twelve around light, 10
P.M.; misty.

_South Maidens._--April 14th, twelve Common Larks seen.

_Rathlin Island._--April 13th, four Skylarks, two killed striking at
midnight.

_Innishtrahull._--March 16th and 19th, Larks about lantern, fourteen
killed.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--Always on island in autumn.

_Killybegs._--Skylarks and Titlarks are here all the year. November
11th, 4 A.M., one killed striking, and another caught at glass; wind
fresh, S.E., gloomy.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 6th and 7th, Larks all day, one killed
striking; fog and rain.

_Skelligs._--October 31st, a few Larks seen.


Snow Bunting.

_Dungarvan._--December 1st, one seen; rare here.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 17th, one caught on deck.

_Rockabill._--December 22d, Snow Buntings.

_Rathlin Island._--March 10th, one seen. September 6th, five going S.
November 4th, two; very few seen this season.

_Innishtrahull._--February 20th, three shot.

_Arranmore._--February 3d and March 12th, Snow Buntings noted.
September 19th, one; 21st, eighteen; also noticed October 30th.

_Eagle Island, E._--October 1st, one on Island, and a few October 6th.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--September 8th, one about rock; wind S., fresh.
October 5th, eight. December 8th, forty all day. January 20th, 1886,
twenty on rock. "For the last nine days the spray has been flying over
rock, and the Snow Buntings never left, and how they manage to exist I
cannot imagine."

_Blacksod._--February 20th, Snow-Birds.

_Arran Island, N._--October 8th, five Snow Buntings.

_Tearaght._--October 14th, several arrived; remained three weeks.

_Skelligs._--September 11th, one on rock; gale from S. October 1st, one
(being first since 11th ult.), which remained here ever since. 6th, six
seen. 31st, a few.


Yellowhammer.

_Mine Head._--November 1st, plentiful, and up to date January 15th,
1886.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 27th, one rested on ship; wind strong S.,
fog.

_Rockabill._--March 3d, Yellowhammers remaining July 5th, do.

_Killybegs._--May 18th, two seen. October 16th, one.


Chaffinch.

_Mine Head._--November 12th, one caught near lighthouse in morning
exhausted. Small birds flying in lantern rays all night, and striking.

_Tuskar Bock._--March 21st, one seen.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--April 12th, one Finch on deck. October
11th, two on deck all day. A flock went N.W. 16th, two all day on ship.
November 2d, 9th, 12th, and 19th, one or two Chaffinches seen about the
deck.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 6th, six passed W. November 12th,
eight alighted on deck. 13th, a flock passed E.

_Kish Light-ship._--May 7th, two about deck all day. November 7th, two
all day about the ship.

_Rockabill._--October 18th, Chaffinches noticed. November 6th, do.

_Tearaght._--March 20th, Chaffinches left about this date. December
19th, a large flock of hen Chaffinches arrived on rock.


"Mountain Finch."

_Skelligs._--November 8th, one struck 10 P.M.; not injured. 9th, four,
but not seen after this date.


Sparrow.

_Mine Head._--January 10th, 1886, Common Sparrow always plentiful here.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--September 19th, flock passed.

_Killybegs._--March 18th, two seen.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 16th, fifty to sixty remained on island
a short time; very lively, went W. 23d and 29th, thirty chirruping and
very lively; also on October 7th and 17th pecking about rubbish. On
last date they flew S.E. inland.

_Straw Island._--April 15th, three House Sparrows.

_Valentia._--June 30th, Sparrows about.


Greenfinch.

_Fastnet._--March 2d, several all day about rock, seven died; overcast,
gloomy, wind fresh, S.E. September 28th, two, wind N.E. October 16th,
three; wind E. light, going N.W. November 12th, seventeen all day on
rock; wind light S.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 16th, one. April 18th, one seen.

_Kish Light-ship._--May 9th, two about masts all day.

_Rockabill._--November 6th, Green Linnets.

_Tearaght._--March 20th, Greenfinches all left about this date.


Redpole.

_Rockabill._--July 5th, Redpoles.


Linnets.

_Fastnet._--May 4th, eight about rock; wind E.N.E. October 20th, a
great number all night about light; hazy, wind N.E., light. November
7th, 8th, and 9th, a great number about light during nights; wind light
S., overcast. 13th, several Linnets seen.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 8th, 26th, and April 13th, one to three.
Noted also 16th, 17th, and 21st September.

_Barrels Bock Light-ship._--One to three noted March 12th, 17th, 28th,
31st, April 13th, May 5th. September 18th, 21st, 28th, 29th, small
flocks going S.E. to N.E. October 25th and 30th, large flocks going N.
January 6th, 1886, small flock going N.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 24th to 27th, one or two about
ship. March 24th, flock of "Grey Linnets" going N.W.; wind light S.W.
April 19th, flock going N.W. October 11th, flock going N.W.; wind N.E.
25th, flocks going N.W.; wind W.

_Rockabill._--October 18th, some passed. November 8th, 9th, and 10th do.

_South Maidens._--March 11th, one "Moss Linnet" seen on balcony at
night.

_Rathlin Island._--April 13th, three about light, one killed striking
at midnight. 14th, three killed midnight.

_Dunree Head._--March 3d, 6th, 10th, and 20th, flocks all day.

_Arranmore._--November 11th, eight Linnets.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--August 24th, Linnets in flocks feeding.

_Killybegs._--March 9th, five Grey Linnets; also April 26th and June
8th. September 15th to 25th, forty to fifty noticed flying about.
October 8th and 28th, do.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 6th, four seen; also on 16th, 27th, and
October 6th.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--December 27th, some Grey Linnets about rock.

_Straw Island._--March 21st, thirty remain on island. July 28th, forty
going S. October 10th, thirty going W.


Twite.

_Mine Head._--September 20th, plentiful from this date to 15th January
1886. On October 29th, flying through rays of lantern at night; wind
and rain.

_Tearaght._--March 20th, Twite left about this date.


Starling.

_Fastnet._--October 20th, several about light all night, eight killed
or wounded; hazy, wind light N.E. November 7th, 8th, 9th, and 11th,
numbers about light at night; wind S., light, overcast--twenty-three
Stares killed striking; 13th, five killed striking.

_Mine Head._--October 29th, about hundred in field, two caught at
lantern 11 P.M., several struck glass; wind S., strong, rain. November
5th, striking from 10 P.M. until midnight. A few captured; foggy.
Flocks flying about to date January 15th, 1886. November 11th, Stares
striking.

_Dungarvan._--October 20th, large flock going N. November 8th, one
killed striking, 11 P.M.; overcast, misty. November 19th, a great flock
feeding near. Very plenty this season. November 30th, large flocks,
going N.W. December 4th, two killed striking 9 P.M.; cloudy.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 24th to 26th, one about ship.

_Barrels Bock Light-ship._--October 25th and November 2d, large flocks
noted going N. and N.W.

_Tuskar Rock._--February 14th, two struck; fog. 15th, constantly
striking 8 P.M. to 4 A.M.; wind fresh, N.E., overcast, gloomy. A great
number killed. March 15th, constantly striking, 9 to 11 P.M.; wind
light S.E., cloudy. 20th, one struck, overcast. April 16th, ditto.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--March 5th, several about lantern at
midnight. March 15th, "Stairs" about lantern 8 P.M. until midnight, two
killed striking; overcast, wind light W. April 12th and 16th, a few
about lantern at night. October 21st, two about lantern. Flocks passed
29th, 30th, and November 1st to N.W. in daytime; and on nights of 3d,
6th, and 8th November, numbers struck the lantern. Many killed; some
fell on deck, others overboard. Weather hazy and rainy; wind moderate,
W.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 4th, four caught on deck. May 26th,
a flock passed N.W. October 16th, large flocks going S.; wind E.S.E.,
strong. Some noted on 22d, 23d, four killed striking. 30th and November
1st, flocks passed going S.W. and N.W. On November 2d, great quantities
all day and night; wind S.W., misty, rain. A few on 4th and 5th, in day
time; and on 10th, 19th, 20th, about lantern at night.

_Kish Light-ship._--October 28th, several flocks going N.W.; wind N.W.
31st, one caught on deck 10 P.M., others flying about light. November
2d and 5th, several flocks in the mornings passed N.W.; wind N.W.
December 17th, a flock about light.

_Rockabill._--January 19th, about light. June 26th and July 1st, some
passed. October 11th, large flocks passing west; wind N.E. October
21st, 23d, November 6th to 10th, 19th, and 26th, numbers passed, many
struck, and were killed.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--March 14th, ten struck lantern, four killed;
24th, three struck. April 14th, thirty struck 3 A.M., six killed;
clear, wind light. October 9th, fourteen struck, six killed, 9 P.M.;
very dark, wind N.W., fresh. November 4th, four struck, two killed;
rain.

_South Maidens._--July 16th, about eighty going N.E. August 1st, a
flock going S.W.

_Rathlin Island._--December 1st, hundreds all day. Numerous this
season. 16th, hundreds.

_Innishtrahull._--March 16th and 19th, Starlings about lantern, three
killed striking.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--August 26th, twelve, one killed. They often strike.

_Killybegs._--November 4th, three struck 8 P.M.; caught alive. A
continuous flight passed from 7.30 A.M. to 10 P.M., appeared to come
from E. or S.E., and go W. or N.W. Four killed striking; gloomy, misty,
wind strong N.W. 14th, about thirty, at 10 A.M.

_Eagle Island, E._--November 19th, small flock came from land, and flew
back. I only saw the one flock in the autumn; whilst in the autumn of
1884 they came in thousands.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 2d, six about lantern during night, fog;
6th and 7th, Starling all day about rock.

_Blacksod._--January 16th and 22d, Starlings in flocks.

_Arran Island, N._--October 10th, a flock on island. November 7th, two
killed striking; 11th, four killed striking; overcast. December 7th,
large flock going S.

_Tearaght._--March 5th, one caught at lantern glass; 17th, one. April
17th, one. November 28th, several flocks on rock.

_Skelligs._--March 17th, two on rock; gale from N.W., with misty rain.
October 17th, a flock on rock; wind S.E., fresh. 31st, Starlings on
rock. A few during November.


Chough.

_Mine Head._--October 29th, Choughs and Daws observed almost daily to
January.

_Rathlin Island._--May 7th, five remain.

_Broadhaven._--August 11th, two Choughs, rarely seen.

_Tearaght._--April 1st, Choughs all gone, except those which remained
to breed.

_Skelligs._--May 1st, a pair building on rock.


Ravens.

_Mine Head._--October 29th, two daily to date January 15th, 1886.

_Rockabill._--June 13th, Ravens seen.

_Rathlin Island._--March 12th, Ravens breed here. May 9th, two.

_Arranmore._--September 26th, two Ravens. January 4th, 1886, two; they
remain here.

_Broadhaven._--August 4th, one seen.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--September 17th, three "small-sized Ravens."

_Straw Island._--October 13th, three.

_Skelligs._--A pair frequently visit, but do not breed here.


Hooded Crow.

_Dungarvan._--November 20th, two seen; rare here.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--September 12th, Grey Crows, always. They build here
in clefts of rocks.

_Broadhaven._--June 22d, twenty-two "Grey-Backed Crows."

_Arran Island, N._--May 10th, two seen on island. June 10th, four.
October 26th, four.

_Straw Island._--March 29th, two Grey-Backed Crows.

_Tearaght._--The Grey Crows and Choughs leave the island with their
young for about three weeks or a month, and a few return afterwards.

_Valentia._--A few noted in April, May, June, and December (Hooded and
"Black-Hooded" Crows).

_Skelligs._--A pair breed here.


Rook.

_Fastnet._--March 21st, two "Crows," 1 P.M.: wind N.E. N.W. May 6th,
two at noon about rock.

_Mine Head._--Rooks constantly about.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 15th, two "Crows" going N.E.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--December 21st, one "Crow" going N.W.

_Tuskar Rock._--March 16th, one "Crow" going W. April 19th, five going
N.W.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--April 15th, one "Crow" going S.E.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 27th and April 6th, two to four
passed N. May 6th, three. November 7th, one alighted on deck.

_Rockabill._--April 21st, "Crows." September 21st, "Crows."

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--March 10th, two.

_South Maidens._--March 11th, three "Crows" going E.; 28th, twelve
ditto. August 1st, three.

_Innishtrahull._--September 4th, "Black Crows" came from shore and flew
back.

_Broadhaven._--May 29th, one hundred.

_Eagle Island, E._--October 10th, five seen; 23d, two. November 18th,
fifty to sixty came from shore, and returned. December 23d, two. "I
think these must be Crows from their harsh croak, very different from
the caw of the rook."

_Arran Island, N._--July 14th, four on island.


Jackdaw.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--October 18th, flock going N.W.

_Eagle Island, E._--November 19th, one; remained all day.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 13th, nine flying S.

_Valentia._--A few noted in June, September, October, November, and
December.


Magpie.

_Dungarvan._--April 30th, two seen.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--April 12th, one Magpie. May 12th, one.

_Arranmore._--September 18th, one seen.


Swallow.

_Fastnet._--April 16th, one all day; wind N.E. May 28th, four, for some
days; two died on rock; wind S.E. June 1st, two; foggy. November 12th,
two.

_Mine Head._--Swallows from 21st September to 20th October.

_Dungarvan._--April 23d, straggling Swallows going N.W.; wind S.W.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 13th, one, and a few on 17th, 20th,
21st, 22d, 27th, May 7th and 10th. On May 27th, seven about ship.
September, one to four seen. October 1st and 5th, flocks going S.; wind
N.W., strong.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--April 17th, Swallows (first seen) going N.;
22d, do. Also noted May 9th, 10th, 11th, 19th, 21st, 22d, and 25th, in
every case going AV.; wind variable. October 12th, two going S.

_Tuskar Rock._--April 15th, one seen; 17th, in great numbers, 10 to 12
A.M., going N.W.; wind light S.E. They continued passing almost daily
until June 1st, and generally in the forenoon. Direction of flight
nearly always N.W. On May 27th a great number of Swallows and Martins
arrived about 6 P.M.; seemed tired, one died on rock; stormy, with fog.
September 4th, 23d, and 28th, Swallows in small numbers going N.W.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--April 13th, one seen, and almost daily
afterwards until date of sending schedule on May 12th. Largest flights,
20th and 21st April. In every case direction of flight was N.W., and
apparently independent of wind. One found dead on deck, April 20th, and
another on May 11th. September 20th, several flying S. October 25th,
two seen.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--April 12th, two about ship, and passing at
intervals until May 16th, especially on 20th and 24th April. Direction
of flight in every case N.W. September 29th, five going N.W.; wind W.

_Kish Light-ship._--April 19th, seven going N. June 26th, two going S.

_Rockabill._--April 15th and 16th, Swallows noted. May 24th, a large
number arrived; wind light S., gloomy. October 6th, great quantities
collected, and all left at noon.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 3d, three; 12th, fifty.

_South Maidens._--April 26th, four. May 13th and 14th, Swallows from
this date to end of May continually on rock; then flying S.E. towards
Mull of Galloway.

_Rathlin Island._--April 18th, one about all day; 23d, two.

_Dunree Head._--April 10th, Swallows arrived.

_Arranmore._--July 3d and 4th, first seen about this station.

_Killybegs._--April 10th and 14th, Swallows, six to ten flying about.

_Broadhaven._--May 20th to 25th, Swallows going N.W.

_Arran Island, N._--May 20th, two Swallows; 24th, one disabled. June
15th, two disabled; fog.

_Tearaght._--May 12th, one; 17th, two; 22d, one found dead at N.E. of
Island.

_Skelligs._--April 17th, first seen to-day. May 13th, four; stayed
three days. October 17th, a Swallow; "tail slightly, if at all, forked."


Martin.

_Dungarvan._--May 23d, four.

_Tuskar Rock._--May 27th, two Martins.


Swift.

_Dungarvan._--June 29th, one seen.

_Rathlin Island._--June 6th, three at station.


Cuckoo.

_Dungarvan._--May 9th, one; first seen this season.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--April 22d, one seen.

_Rathlin Island._--April 20th, one. May 2d, two seen.

_Dunree Head._--May 2d, Cuckoo first heard.

_Arranmore._--April 20th, one Cuckoo.

_Blacksod._--May 15th, Cuckoo heard.

_Straw Island._--May 8th, a Cuckoo heard, being ten days earlier than
the inhabitants remember hearing it.


Pigeons.

_Mine Head._--October 26th to November 16th, one to six Rock Pigeons at
intervals. December 9th and 11th, twelve to forty. January 6th, 1886,
eight.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--January 20th, one caught.

_Rockabill._--February 2d, Pigeon seen. May 7th and 9th, some
remaining. July 5th, a Carrier Pigeon, branded on the wings; is alive.
September 20th, two white ones caught. October 7th, one caught.

_Dunree Head._--June 12th, flocks of Pigeons about the cliffs.

_Lough Swilly._--November 18th, large flock going W.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--August 9th, two rested on eave of dwelling-house;
one remained, and became quite tame.

_Broadhaven._--April 29th, a large flock of Pigeons.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--June 26th, ten "Sea Pigeons" about rock. November
8th, eight Rock Pigeons on rock.

_Arran Island, N._--November 23d, seven Pigeons; first seen since I
came to this station.

_Straw Island._--May 23d, four Pigeons on island. July 29th, four.
September 7th, do.

_Tearaght._--February 20th, last of the Rock Pigeons left about this
date.

_Skelligs._--March 6th, one about rock.


Partridge.

_Rockabill._--November 12th, a Partridge.


Corncrake.

_Mine Head._--October 1st, one seen.

_Tuskar Rock._--April 17th, two on rock after the night. May 13th, two
on rock, killed [Received.--R. M. B.].

_Rockabill._--November 19th, a Corncrake.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 14th, a Corncrake, going S.W.

_Rathlin Island._--12th, one "Spotted Crake." June 30th, another seen.


Water Rail.

_Rockabill._--November 21st, a Water Rail.


Waterhen.

_Arran Island, N._--November 6th, one on island; must have come from
the big island of Arran.


Golden Plover.

_Fastnet._--November 9th, two Plover; wind S,, fresh.

_Mine Head._--October 11th, December 11th, and January 7th, a few.

_Rathlin Island._--December 7th, flocks remain here.

_Tory Island._--"Grey Plover" noted March 22d and April 7th.

_Arranmore._--October 22d, twenty-eight Golden Plover.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--November 27th, four to twelve came from shore.
Never seen here except in frosty weather.

_Killybegs._--March 12th, forty seen.


Green Plover.

_Fastnet._--March 15th, two on rock, and one drowned; wind E.N.E.,
fresh.

_Mine Head._--November 16th, December 8th and 9th, seen. Always in
frosty weather.

_Dungarvan._--Flocks on October 23d, November 12th, 24th, and 30th.

_Rockabill._--February 11th, Lapwing in flocks, going W. Some noted
November 9th, 18th, and 26th.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--December 15th, seven flying N.

_Arranmore._--October 16th, 28th, and December 29th, one or two Lapwing
noted.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--September 14th, Green Plover; seldom seen here.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 17th, one Green Plover alighted.

_Arran Island, N._--March 14th, forty Lapwing going N.


Seapie.

_Dungarvan._--May 12th, large flock going N.W. June 2d, large flock on
rocks.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 6th, two in vicinity. December 22d, fifty
about island.

_South Maidens._--May 3d, three on rock. 13th, two.

_Rathlin Island._--Oyster Catchers are to be seen at all times.

_Innishtrahull._--April 13th, six on island.

_Broadhaven._--August 24th, large flock of Seapies. September 12th, a
flock.

_Eagle Island, S._--September 6th, two on rocks.

_Arran Island, N._--April 14th, a flock of Seapie. July 16th, Seapies.
August 10th, sixty. December 26th, thirty.

_Tearaght._--March 7th, a pair observed; about island all summer.

_Skelligs._--March 8th, one perched on rock. June 15th, a pair breed
here. They laid three clutches, three eggs each, their first being
taken.


Woodcock.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--December 15th, two killed striking.

_South Maidens._--April 14th, one found dead after striking at midnight.

_Arranmore._--November 8th, 15th, and December 21st, Woodcock noted.
They are more numerous this year than for the past four years.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--Noted December 1st and 9th. Seldom seen, as they
have no cover on island.

_Killybegs._--October 30th, 3 A.M., one killed striking; gale from S.E.
November 18th, 2 A.M., another; wind strong, S.E.

_Eagle Island, E._--November 9th, one killed striking, 11 P.M.

_Tearaght._--December 8th, one on rock. 10th, one seen.

_Valentia._--November 20th, one killed striking.

_Skelligs._--October 10th, one on rock.


Snipe.

_Fastnet._--November 8th, two Jacksnipe killed striking; overcast, wind
S., light.

_Mine Head._--November 18th, four seen, and observed frequently.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--April 14th, six about island. November 5th,
six remain. December 31st, eight.

_Rathlin Island._--November 10th, three Jacksnipe. December 20th,
twenty Common Snipe.

_Arranmore._--October 25th, November 14th, and December 1st, Snipe
noted. They are more numerous this year than for past four years.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--September 18th, 30th, October 24th, and December
11th, Snipe noted, with the remark that they resort the island all the
winter.

_Killybegs,_--October 20th, 2 A.M., one killed striking; misty.

_Broadhaven._--April 16th, "a flock of Snipe" going N.

_Eagle Island, E._--October 19th, one seen, November 9th, one killed
striking.

_Arran Island, N._--November 9th, two killed striking at midnight;
misty.

_Tearaght._--March 8th, one "large Snipe," and on other occasions
during month.


"Sea Larks," etc.

_Rockabill._--March 18th, "Sand Larks" flying about.

Copeland (Mew) Island.--April 14th, fifteen "Sand Larks" struck, 4
A.M., seven killed, night very dark. October 10th, twenty "Sand Larks"
struck, ten killed, very dark; wind N., strong. November 3d, three
struck, one killed.

_South Maidens._--Towards middle of April "Sand Larks" visited us
daily, and then flew to a rock near. May 13th, seven.

_Rathlin Island._--"Sandpipers" at all times.

_Innishtrahull._--April 13th, "Sand Larks" on island.

_Arranmore._--June 8th, three "Sand Larks." They must have nest about
station.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--August 24th, they are always about island.

_Broadhaven._--April 21st, twelve "Sea Larks" seen. September 2d,
several. They breed near.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 18th, five "Sand Larks." November 8th,
seven.

_Arran Island, N._--April 24th, eighteen "Sand Larks."

_Straw Island._--May 26th, thirty on island.


Redshank.

_Arran Island, N._--April 20th, twelve Redshank, July 21st, two.
December 26th, twenty on island.


Greenshank.

_Dungarvan._--November 17th and 23d, flock going N.E.


Curlew.

_Fastnet._--September 24th, one for several days on rock.

_Mine Head._--July 29th, twelve Curlew going E. October 11th, four do.

_Dungarvan._--March 3d and 17th, large flocks going S.E.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 16th, flock passed over ship to N. May
2d, three; 3d, several going N.E. September 10th and 11th, a few going
N.E.

_Tuskar Rock._--April 18th, Curlew going N.W.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--July 24th, one Curlew on deck. August 6th,
a flock.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 4th and 5th, two to four about
lantern at night.

_Rockabill._--April 14th, 15th, and 16th, Curlew.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--October 11th, fifty about.

_South Maidens._--April 14th, Curlews in night over lighthouse. These
birds are extremely cautious, rarely striking lantern. June 21st, a
large flock going S.E.; wind N.W. Some noted July 18th, 28th, and
August 8th.

_Rathlin Island._--April 14th, a flock of Curlew at midnight.

_Innishtrahull._--April 13th, fourteen Curlew on island.

_Lough Swilly._--September 15th, four; 28th, large flock going N.W.

_Arranmore._--September 12th, three.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--November 21st, about twenty on rocks. They are
always on island.

_Killybegs._--November 19th, about twenty seen.

_Broadhaven._--September 22d, several flocks alighted, twelve to twenty
in each.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 4th, four seen.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--June 20th, flock of Curlew.

_Blacksod._--January 16th, large flocks. May 2d, flocks.

_Arran Island, N._--April 10th, ten Curlew going S. May 20th, forty;
30th, twenty. June 12th, thirty. August 10th, twenty. December 20th,
forty.

_Tearaght._--March 20th, one, and for a few days after.


Whimbrel.

_Dungarvan._--April 25th and 26th, large flocks flying high to N.W.;
wind S.W. May 16th, small flocks going N.W.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 12th, flock of Whimbrel passed N.

_Rockabill._--April 21st, May birds. June 26th, do.

_South Maidens._--May 8th, "May fowl" going N.W.; 13th, large flock
flying W.

_Broadhaven._--May 16th, large flocks of "May birds" going N.W.

_Straw Island._--May 17th, thirty "young Curlew" going N.E.


Terns.

_Tuskar Rock._--May 24th, Common Terns alighted on rock; 27th, passing
S.W, in small numbers since 24th.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 26th, thirty "Pirrs or Sea Mews." Remain
here until middle of September. September 17th, the "Sea Mews" left
to-day.

_Slyne Head, North._--May 8th, Terns arrived to build.

_Arran Island, N._--May 19th and 20th, twenty to forty. September 10th,
a flock.


Gulls.

_Mine Head._--September 21st, Herring Gulls, young and old, and
Kittiwake in vicinity to date 15th January 1886.

_Dungarvan._--June 5th, one Skua Gull chasing birds in bay. November
4th, immense flocks in bay. December 3d, great numbers of Black-Headed
Gulls in fields.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May, Gulls of various kinds passed. March
14th, first Skua Gull this year.

_Kish Light-ship._--June 10th, many flocks of Grey Gulls.

_Rathlin Island._--March 4th and 6th, a few Black-Backed Gulls and
flocks of Kittiwakes and Herring Gulls noted. June 12th, thousands of
Herring Gulls. November 7th, thousands of Herring Gulls.

_Arranmore._--February 6th, one Skua Gull remained two days.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--August 9th, Royal Gulls breed on island.

_Killybegs._--May 26th, a number of Gulls flying about.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 27th, several Grey Gulls all day.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--March 31st, "small Gulls visited rock to look at
place to build." January 3d, 1886, some small Gulls after fry near rock.

_Arran Island, N._--July 14th, large flocks all day.

_Straw Island._--Numbers of Grey-Backed Gulls remain throughout the
winter. September 19th and 21st, flock of young gulls going S.W.

_Tearaght._--The Kittiwake remains long after the Puffin, Razorbill,
and Guillemot are gone, but leaves before the Stormy Petrel. Only
a few Herring Gulls breed on the island. They prey on the eggs of
other birds, and carry them off in their bill without breaking
them--Guillemots' eggs, some of which weigh eight ounces. They also
carry off the young birds and devour them on a rock close by. On May
17th I saw one seize an old Razorbill, which was on a ledge with
others, and carry it about 100 yards, when it fell into the sea. The
"Mottled Gull," which I suppose is the young Herring Gull, was not seen
since the 1st of May. They were seen again on August 5th, and will
remain during winter.

_Valentia._--September 29th, Skua Gulls seen. October 5th, twenty Skua
Gulls.

_Skelligs._--March 15th, adult Kittiwakes first appeared; 16th, first
alighted on the rock, and took possession of old nests and building
places. 23d, flock on water; came on rock again to-day. June 1st, one
lesser Black-Backed Gull. "The only one seen for past two years." (? R.
M. B.) 6th, Kittiwakes commenced laying. Great Black-Backed Gulls breed
on Lesser Skelligs.


Manx Shearwater.

_Mine Head._--December 27th, a few fishing.

_Dungarvan._--March 23d, fishing in bay.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 14th, four about ship; first this year.
April 16th and May 6th, several seen.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 21st, first seen this year; going W.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--April 26th, "Mackerel-cocks" about ship.

_Rathlin Island._--March 17th, Shearwater seen.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--September 22d and October 3d, thousands of "Manx
Shearwater" going in one continuous stream to N.W. and N.; wind H.

_Straw Island._--July 12th, eight "Mackerel-cock."

_Tearaght._--March 7th, Shearwater first heard. May 11th, three on
water, and were heard occasionally on dark nights up to September 1st.
The Manx Shearwater breeds on Innishvicillane, an island three miles
distant.

_Skelligs._--March 2d, one struck 9.30 P.M., fell, but not killed;
first appearance this year. May 1st, great numbers came on rock about
10 P.M.; weather thick. 8th, first egg seen to-day. August 27th, one
young one caught after striking at 10 P.M. Shearwater often strike, but
I never saw one killed; the same remark applies to Stormy Petrel. They
generally strike during drizzling rain, seldom in a fog. 29th, heard at
night for last time this year.


Stormy Petrel.

_Fastnet._--October 20th, three about light; hazy, wind light, N.E.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 26th, one about ship, and at intervals
to May 1st. May 9th, one; also on May 20th and 24th. September 15th,
ten about ship; wind strong, W.S.W.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--May 27th, one hovering about; wind S.,
stormy. September 12th, three going S.W.; wind strong. November 16th,
one at noon about ship; wind strong, S.E.

_South Maidens._--July 16th, one found alive on balcony.

_Tearaght._--March 5th, one flew against glass. April 4th, one against
glass. Observed as early as March 1st, but not plentiful until July,
"If I said there were six or seven thousand here, it would be giving
an idea of how plentiful they are." The eggs are laid about 15th June,
and the first I observed hatched was on 10th August. They vomit a
half-digested white matter as well as the oil; perhaps it is this they
feed the young with.

_Valentia._--May 8th, one caught at night. October 2d, one captured in
yard. September 20th, one seen.

_Skelligs._--April 21st, first appearance on rock in holes. May 13th,
numbers about lantern at 10 P.M. June 15th, first egg seen to-day. A
fortnight later than last year.


Razorbill.

_Mine Head._--October 4th, young Razorbill diving, and on December
12th, 23d, and 27th, flocks flying towards S.W.; on latter date fishing
in great numbers. January 15th, 1886, the young Razorbill is as
plentiful here now as I ever saw them at the Tearaght.

_Dungarvan._--May 13th, great number all day.

_Arranmore._--Feb. 10th, Razorbills seen 5 wind strong, S.W.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--May 2d, flock around rock. 11th, alighted on rock.

_Tearaght._--March 12th, first came on cliffs, young birds leaving
about July 13th, old and young all gone August 20th. They were about
as plentiful as on other years. They were observed taking the young on
their backs in the same way as last year by Mrs M'Carron. The young
birds leave in the evenings and at night. When they get to the water,
the object of the old bird seems to be to get the young ones out to sea.

_Skelligs._--March 13th, a few perched on rock for first time this
year. March 16th, two "Blackbilled Auks" fishing around rock. First
seen since 2d inst., when I thought they had all left. (These are young
Razorbills.--R. M. B.) 23d, great numbers alighted on rock at 6 A.M.;
wind S., strong. May 9th, first Razorbill's egg seen. July 20th, some
leaving rock, young being fully grown. August 10th, all gone but a few.


Guillemot.

_Mine Head._--December 27th, one seen.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 31st, large flock of "Murs" going E.
December 31st, flocks of "Murs." January 9th, 1886, small flocks of
"Murs" going E.

_Rathlin Island._--March 28th, Guillemots and Razorbills.

_Arranmore._--February 12th, Guillemots first observed.

_Tearaght._--January 28th, about twenty observed at their breeding
places. February 18th, a good many on the cliffs. Old and young gone on
17th August. About as numerous as previous year. The young leave in the
night time.

_Skelligs._--February 10th, first appearance 7 A.M.--They continued to
increase up to end of month, alighting at daybreak, and leaving about
10 P.M. or noon, when they leave again, and reappear next morning. May
9th, first Guillemots eggs seen. July 20th, some leaving rock, young
ones being fully grown. August 10th, all gone but a few.


Puffin.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April and May, great flocks passed during
these months.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 26th, two "Sea Parrots." First seen
this year. April 2d, "Sea Parrots" drifting with tide.

_Rockabill._--October 4th, "Puffins."

_Rathlin Island._--March 30th, Puffins.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 28th, one "Sea Parrot" (young bird)
swimming. "Did not notice any of these birds up to the present."
October 1st, fifty to sixty; also seen on 8th, and from November 28th
to December 1st, "continuous flights" are noted as going W. all day,
skimming the surface of the water.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--Flocks of "Puffins" noted March 4th, 7th, and April
6th. On 29th, "Sea Parrots alighted to look at building ground." On
June 9th, "Puffins of all kinds on rock hatching." July 20th, "Sea
Parrots leaving rock."

_Clare Island._--April 11th, Guillemots and Puffins arrived to build.

_Arran Island, N._--January 7th, flocks of "Puffins." Also on May 20th,
all day; and on July 16th.

_Straw Island._--April 7th, twenty-two "Puffins." "Sea Parrots" noted
April 11th and May 1st, going E. July 10th, thirty "Sea Parrots."
September 4th, ten "Puffins," looked very young.

_Tearaght._--March 23d, Puffin in great numbers on water. 31st,
observed on water at south side of island at 7 A.M., rose on island
at 9 A.M. Again they disappeared until April 3d, and on the 4th they
became permanent. The young birds were leaving on July 16th. This they
never do in the day-time. They left August 15th. A white-headed Puffin
was captured on June 2d. [Head received, greyish white.--R. M. B.]

_Valentia._--October 1st, one taken in yard.

_Skelligs._--March 26th, first appearance of Puffins flying; 31st,
alighted on rock first time to-day; wind strong, S.W. April 24th, first
Puffin's eggs seen. August 10th, Puffins left to-day _en masse_, except
a few whose young are not matured.


Great Northern Diver.

_Dungarvan._--April 8th, two swimming about. November 25th, two.
December 1st, four.

_Rathlin Island._--June 16th, two seen.

_Straw Island._--April 23d, two Great Northern Divers. November 7th,
two.


Cormorant.

_Mine, Head._--January 15th, 1886, plentiful along the cliffs.

_Dungarvan._--November 5th, numbers feeding.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--A few at end of April.

_Rockabill._--October 4th, Cormorants.

_Rathlin Island._--March 6th, Green Cormorants.

_Dunree Head._--Cormorants never leave all the year round.

_Arranmore._--February 5th and March 27th, Cormorants noted.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--August 4th, twelve Cormorants. These birds are
always in vicinity. The "Black Diver" came here in spring, and
continued while fish were plenty.

_Broadhaven._--June 30th, large numbers remain here this time of year.
November 14th, they are here all the year.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 26th, October 15th and 22d, seen.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--May 25th and 29th, Cormorants alighted on rock near
us. "When they flap their wings, it is a sure sign of storm."

_Straw Island._--May 19th, four seen. July 31st, three.

_Valentia._--A few Cormorants noted in April, June, October, November,
and December.

_Tearaght._--March 22d, two Green Cormorants, and several times after.
On March 20th, "I observed a very strange specimen of the Cormorant.
The crown of the head seemed flat, the whole length of the bill being
in a line with it. The under part of the bill, at a short distance from
the head, terminated abruptly; white in front of eyes, large black
curved streak round eyes behind, grey round back of neck, crown of head
a little tufted behind."


Gannet.

_Dungarvan._--Entries on March 8th, May 20th, and June 20th. Direction
of flight variable.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 13th, ten; 31st, five going E. During
September Gannets at intervals passing ship, generally E.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March. 24th, small flocks going S.W.
September 22d, flocks going east. December 27th, 28th, 31st, and
January 9th, 1886, Gannets noticed going in various directions.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--Gannets noted February 14th, 19th, 20th,
March 2d, 4th, 23d, and May 12th, in every case flying low to the N.E.
August 16th and September 23d, flocks of Gannet.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 24th, flocks going N. and S.
March 23d, four passed N, During the month of April flocks of Gannets
constantly passed, going N. May 19th, several flocks passed, going N.E.
and S.W. October 27th, six going N.

_Kish Light-ship._--A few Gannets going N. April 16th, 17th, and May
4th, and going S. on 29th May and June 17th.

_Rockabill._--March 18th, April 21st, May 9th, Gannets seen. September
21st, October 8th, 12th, 22d, noted.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--March 25th, two--the first seen since last
September. May 8th, eight seen.

_South Maidens._--April, Gannets fishing.

_Rathlin Island._--March 2d, 14th, April 3d and 6th, flocks going W.
May 5th, small flock going W. all day; also on June 3d and 21st, going
W. September 14th, a flock going W., and more or less every day this
month.

_Arranmore._--February 7th, Gannets going S.W. March 20th and May 23d,
going E. and N.E.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--Saw plenty in September.

_Killybegs._--March 22d to 28th, a few going N. Noted in June fishing.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 26th, and on frequent dates up to October
17th, Gannets in twos and threes and flocks, all going W.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--Flocks noted March 22d, 25th, and May 19th. On
July 2d, a few fishing. October 18th, 19th, and 20th, great numbers of
Gannets going N. January 17th and 19th, 1886, two or three, the first
seen since October 20th.

_Slyne Head, North._--May 17th and 20th, large flocks of Gannets.

_Arran Island, N._--January 8th, Gannets observed. July 14th, numbers
of Gannets about.

_Straw Island._--March 7th and April 3d, a few noticed.

_Skelligs._--February 28th, _Gannets first perched on Lesser Skelligs_,
their breeding station. June 15th, an unusual number this year.
They must have come from the Bull Rock, owing to the erection of a
lighthouse on it, which is now building.


Herons.

_Dungarvan._--March 27th, two flying inland; wind N.W. October 26th,
two.

_Tuskar Rock._--March 14th, two going H.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--September 21st, two "Cranes."

_Rathlin Island._--May 24th, two going W.

_Eagle Island, E._--September 27th, one seen.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 20th, two Cranes seen. July 12th, one.

_Tearaght._--July 22d, "four Herons (?) flying about island, and for a
few days. Was quite close to them. Never saw anything like them before.
Tips of wings were black, which continued along inner side, forming
a black fringe. There was a white spot at the angle of the wings in
front."

_Skelligs._--March 22d, a Heron seen; wind H., strong. July 22d, two
Herons perched on rock; flew E. 26th, two seen.


Geese.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--March 11th, twenty going E.

_South Maidens._--March 19th, three Barnacle. August 25th, a flock of
Barnacle going S.

_Innishtrahull._--January, small flocks of Barnacle passing S.; also on
February 10th, 15th, and 18th, one shot on 20th.

_Lough Swilly._--October 8th, eighteen; 12th, large flocks passing N.

_Tory Island._--March 23d and 28th, Barnacle passed.

_Arranmore._--February 13th, Barnacle remain on island all winter.
April 1st, some going N.W. October 3d, twenty-four going S.; wind W.,
strong. Barnacle also passed on 6th, 8th, 10th, and 18th to 22d.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--October 4th, twenty-two alighted on island; shot
two. November 7th, 16th, and 20th, Barnacle noted, "one being a gander,
the first seen for last two years."

_Broadhaven._--April 1st, a large flock of Wild Geese going S.W.
December 22d, Wild Geese remain here until March.

_Eagle Island, E._--October 19th, seven Barnacle going S.W. November
8th, about one hundred going S.W.

_Blacksod._--January 17th, February 10th, and April 30th, noted.

_Arran Island, N._--February 14th, twelve Wild Geese. May 18th, flock
of Barnacle going N. July 19th, four "Wild Geese" going S.; 23d, five
going N. October 10th, large flock of Barnacle going S.

_Straw Island._--November 9th, eight Wild Geese going N. Tearaght. May
2d, thirty going N.; 17th, twenty ditto.


Ducks.

_Mine Head._--December 13th, one found dead near lighthouse.

_Dungarvan._--April 14th, large flock of Teal going to sea. June 27th,
thirteen Wild Duck on a rock near station. October 25th, flock of Teal.
November 1st, large flock of Duck; 11th, a flock; 13th, large flock of
Widgeon; 29th, numbers of Duck and Teal on water.

_Tuskar Rock._--January 22d, one alighted on rock.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 16th, 23d, and 24th, flocks of Ducks
going N.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--April 12th, three; 16th, eight. May 6th, two
Shelldrake. November 4th, four Wild Ducks. December 26th, twelve about
island.

_Rathlin Island._--December 9th, one Shelldrake. November 8th, one
Pochard shot.

_Dunree Head._--February 6th, 20th, 20th, and 27th, flocks passing
station.

_Lough Swilly._--October 30th, four seen.

_Tory Island._--Ducks noted February 14th and March 17th.

_Arranmore._--Ducks on island all winter.

_Killybegs._--April 20th, two. About six pair nest in a bog near.

_Broadhaven._--March 4th, flock of Shelldrake going N.W. 29th, five
Wild Duck.

_Straw Island._--March 5th, eight Wild Duck; 13th, six. October 17th,
fifteen Wild Duck; 18th, two Shelldrake. November 5th, thirty Wild Duck.


Merganser.

_Dungarvan._--April 5th, eleven going S.


Birds not Identified.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--May 21st, "observed a curious bird hovering
around the ship. It was larger than a Thrush, and of a brown mottled
colour, with a streak of white across each wing. It flew N."

_South Maidens._--May 13th, "a strange bird seen on rock, not as large
as a Thrush, with a portion of the back yellow, white near the tail,
which was dotted with yellow spots. I have not seen a bird resembling
this one since I came to station."

_Tearaght._--On 12th April, a bird Like the Great Shrike was observed.

_Skelligs._--October 16th, "a small bird about the size of a Wren with
a white spot on its forehead, flitting about amongst the lichen on the
face of the rocks. It uttered a note like tzit, tzit, tzit, or tzee, a
little sibilant in tone."

_Skelligs._--October 23d, a Starling? feeding on rock. A gale from
N.E., with mist. "This bird was spotted with white spots, the same as
Morris's Nutcracker."


       *       *       *       *       *


Transcriber Note

Some irregularities in spelling and hyphenation were left as printed.
Minor typos were corrected. The elevation of the Lochindaul Station on
p. 93 was corrected to 50 based on the 1884 Report.






*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS IN
THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1885 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
